-*- OVERVIEW -*-

The first Zelda game in 3-D, and considered to be one of the greatest video
games ever. At a whopping 256kb, this is one big game. The graphics are ground-
breaking, the game play is fun, the story is deep.... It's hard not to like
this game. The overall goal of this game is to stop the rise of Ganondorf, the
evil King of the Gerudo Thieves. Link, a small boy living in Kokiri Forest,
must find Princess Zelda and work together to save Hyrule from the evil thief's
plans for world domination. However, in his efforts to stop Ganondorf, some-
thing goes wrong, and Ganondorf manages to take over the world and capture
Princess Zelda. Helped by a strange and secretive youth named Sheik, Link must
awaken the five sages around Hyrule, defeat Ganondorf, and save Princess Zelda.


-*- PLAYING THE GAME -*-

Most of this is covered in the manual already. For you sue-happy people, this
is straight out of my MM FAQ, and since I am the rightful copyright owner, I
have every right to include this here, so don't e-mail Bedman claiming that you
found a plagiarist because I am Bedman! And no, I didn't copy this directly out
of the manual, I wrote it myself.

- CONTROLS -

The controls for this game are pretty simple. Here's a list of the basics:

A BUTTON:          VARIOUS (OPEN, SPEAK, NEXT, CHECK, PUT AWAY, ATTACK, etc.)
B BUTTON:          ATTACK WITH SWORD
Z BUTTON:          CENTER CAMERA, Z-TARGET
R BUTTON:          RAISE SHIELD
L BUTTON:          TOGGLE ONSCREEN MAP, TURN OFF OCARINA EFFECTS
START BUTTON:      PAUSE GAME
C UP BUTTON:       LOOK AROUND W/ 1ST PERSON, LISTEN TO NAVI
C LEFT/RIGHT/DOWN: USE ITEM(S) SET TO C BUTTONS
CONTROL STICK:     MOVE CHARACTER, CURSOR

- Z-TARGETING -

Z-Targeting is a useful technique used to keep Link's attention on one enemy or
object. While Z-Targeting, attacks will be more accurate, and talking to people
or reading signs will be easier. Link will always face the item he has Z-
Targeted, and the controls will change slightly while using Z-Targeting. Once
you use it enough, you'll get used to it and it'll become natural. If you see
a colored arrow above an item, you can Z-Target it. Green arrows mean there's
a sign or something else you can check. A blue arrow means you can talk to a
person or thing. Yellow arrows appear above enemies. Also, if Navi suddenly
flies away, it's not because she doesn't like you, it's because she's found
something interesting. Z-Target her and listen to what she has to say.

There are two types of Z-Targeting that you can change in the OPTIONS menu, but
both of them use the Z Button found on the bottom of the controller. The two
options are SWITCH and HOLD. Switch is good for beginners. To use it, simply
tap the Z Button to target an enemy. Tap it again to stop targeting or to
switch to a different enemy. The Hold option is for more advanced players (like
me, obviously) who have mastered the Z-Targeting system. It's better, but can
be a little tougher to get used to. To use it, you must HOLD the Z-Button to
target an enemy. When you let go of the Z-Button, you'll quit using it.

Also while Z-Targeting enemies, you can press UP C to get a hint from Navi. We
didn't have anything like this in the older games... Zelda games these days are
just too easy. If you want a challenge, try playing Zelda II and you will think
Ocarina of Time is sooo easy. Even Iron Knuckles seem pathetic compared to
their AoL counterparts.

- OPTIONS -

You can only change these options on the Game Menu after the Title Screen.

SOUND
There are four options for sound. They are STEREO, MONO, HEADSET, and SURROUND.
Stereo is best on stereo TVs, while Mono is best on Mono TVs (meaning TVs with
only one speaker, I don't know why they ever made them like that). Headset is
best if you're using headphones (like me), and Surround is if you have a really
great Dolby Surround Sound System (also like me).

Z TARGETING
The two options are SWITCH and HOLD. See the Z-TARGETING section for more
details.

CHECK BRIGHTNESS
At first, you may think this is for changing the brightness of the game. It's
not, it's for checking the brightness on your TV. If you can't see all four
shades of gray, adjust the brightness on your TV so that you can.

- MOVES / ADVANCED CONTROLS -

Z = While Z-Targeting is active, or while holding Z without targeting an object

ROLL ATTACK
BUTTONS: CONTROL STICK UP + A OR Z + A WHILE SWORD IS PUT AWAY
USE: A general rolling attack, doesn't do much to enemies. Useful for destroy-
ing crates, pots, etc. and to knock items out of trees.

NORMAL SWORD SWIPE
BUTTONS: B BUTTON (if sword isn't out, makes Link take out his sword)

BACK FLIP
BUTTONS: Z + CONTROL STICK DOWN + A
USE: To dodge enemy attacks, especially dodging the Iron Knuckle's axe.

SIDE JUMP
BUTTONS: Z + CONTROL STICK RIGHT / LEFT + A
USE: To dodge enemy attacks, especially dodging the Iron Knuckle's axe.

JUMP ATTACK
BUTTONS: Z + A + SWORD OUT
USE: Does twice the damage of a normal sword slash, but takes a bit more time
to get up afterwards, leaving you vulnerable to enemy attack.

STAB ATTACK
BUTTONS: Z + CONTROL STICK UP + B + SWORD OUT
USE: Quick stabbing attack using the sword, useful for stabbing enemies with
shields, or enemies that block normal sword slashes.

SHIELD STAB
BUTTONS: R + B
USE: While using your shield, you can make a quick stab at your enemy. You'll
quickly stab the enemy, and then you'll raise your shield right away. It can't
be used while Z-Targeting at all.

GRAB / THROW / DROP
BUTTONS: A
USE: If there's anything you can lift (clay pot, small crate, small shrub,
Bomb, etc.) you can press A once to pick it up. Press A again to drop it (while
standing still) or to throw it (while moving).

GRAB / PUSH / PULL / CLIMB
BUTTONS: A + CONTROL STICK
USE: Use the A button to grab large blocks or other moveable things. Press UP
on the control stick to push it and DOWN on the control stick to pull it. Or,
to climb on top of it, push UP on the control stick (towards the block) and
then press A to climb on top of it when the blue icon says "Climb."

OPEN
BUTTONS: A
USE: While standing in front of a door or chest, press the A Button to open it
up. Chests usually contain useful items. Sometimes, doors can be locked. If
a door has chains on it and a lock, you need a key to open it. If it has metal
bars on it, you must find a way to open the door (defeating all the enemies in
the room, pressing a switch, shooting an eye switch, lighting torches, etc).

- C-ITEMS -

If you've played other Zelda games, this will likely be familiar. You can set
different items to the bottom three C Buttons. To change the items, pause,
switch to the ITEMS subscreen, then press a C Button to set that item to that
C Button. While playing the game, press the C Button to use the item. I usually
keep the Ocarina set to the Right C Button, the Bow set to Left C, and the
Hookshot set to Down C, but you can choose to set any items to any buttons. My
advice: always set the items to the same buttons, if possible. This way, you
can take them out quickly without looking at what they're set to (example: I
never assign the hookshot to the left c-button, and I never set the Bow to the
bottom c-button and I never set anything but the Ocarina to the right c-button.
This allows me to immediately take out an item without looking at what button
it's assigned to as long as I know that it is assigned).

- THE PAUSE SCREENS -

There are four different screens to view when you press the START button. Use
the Z and R buttons to scroll through them. Also, to save at any time in the
game, press the B button while viewing any of the Pause screens to save your
game.

ITEMS

This shows all the items you can assign to the bottom three C-Buttons. Any gray
items can't be assigned. To turn them un-gray, try traveling through time....

MAP

Outside of dungeons, this map shows all the areas of Hyrule that you have been
to before. Any areas you haven't been to are covered with clouds. Also, blink-
ing dots show where you should go next in your quest. You can also check to see
if you've gotten all the Gold Skulltulas in an area by scrolling through all
the areas with the Control Stick. An arrow pointing to a location shows where
to go next in the Biggoron Sword trade sequence (see SIDE MISSIONS section).

Inside of dungeons, this screen shows a map of the dungeon you're currently in.
If you haven't received the map, it only shows the rooms that you've been in.
If you have received the map, it shows all the rooms. Rooms that you've been in
are blue, and rooms that you haven't been in are just outlined. This also shows
if you've gotten the Map, Compass, and Big Key for that dungeon. If you have
the Compass, you will also be able to see where all the chests and the final
boss are hidden.

QUEST

This displays the status of your quest. Pieces of Heart, Spiritual Stones,
Medallions, Ocarina Songs, the Stone of Agony, and the Gerudo Membership Card
are all displayed on this screen.

EQUIPMENT

This allows you to change what kind of weaponry and clothing you have equipped.
You can change your sword, shield, tunic, and boots (assuming you have more
than one). It also shows upgrades such as the Zora's Fin, Goron Bracelet /
Gauntlets, Quiver, and Bullet Bag. These upgrades cannot be changed. Once you
receive a better one, you can't use the old one (unless, in the case of the
Goron Bracelet and the Gauntlets, you can't use the better version as a kid).


 _____
|STORY|
|—————|

  Link never knew where he came from. He had lived in the Kokiri Forest his
whole life, but everyone treated him differently, everyone except for Saria.
Mido, the self-proclaimed leader of the Kokiri, always enjoyed bullying him,
but who ever put Mido in charge? The Great Deku Tree, the guardian of the for-
est, had never put Mido in charge. It wasn't fair. To make things worse, Link
had never received a guardian fairy. All the other Kokiri Children had a fairy
of their own to guide and protect them, yet Link had always been the boy with-
out a fairy.
  Little did Link realize that his destiny would lead him out of the forest one
day. He didn't realize that the dreams he had begun to have weren't just ran-
domly made by his imagination and his courageous heart.
  Rain pounded onto his face as he looked at the smooth stone cliff. In the
middle of it, a great wooden door opened down to make a bridge. It seemed to
be held up by shiny silver rope, which was made shinier by the brilliant
flashes of lighting. Link looked beyond the mouth of the... cave? Beyond the
smooth cliff seemed to be... things made of wood? They looked like funny square
trees. The path was covered in smooth stones... beyond, on a great hill, was a
large mountain of stone, but it also seemed to be shaped funny. The edges were
too straight; the sides were too smooth.
  A large four-legged animal came bursting out of the doorway at top-speed,
nearly running over Link. As he turned to look at the shrinking figure, he saw
two people on the animal. One was a girl, who looked back at Link with a look
of horror on her face. The other was an unusually large girl. Both were wear-
ing strange clothes colored with white and black. As they faded into the dis-
tance, Link spun around to face an enormous black figure on another four legged
creature. He gazed into the fiery red eyes of both beasts and shuddered.
  Link woke with a start. He was still in his bed in his tree. Everything was
still dark. He went back to sleep, but the same dream occurred several times
over the next few days.

  "O Navi, where art thou?" the Deku Tree asked. "It is time for the boy
without a fairy to fulfill his destiny...."

 ___________
|WALKTHROUGH|
|———————————|

-*- KOKIRI FOREST -*-

NEW GUIDE: NAVI
NEW EQUIPMENT: KOKIRI SWORD
NEW EQUIPMENT: DEKU SHIELD
NEW ITEM: DEKU STICK

Be sure to pay attention to the cutscenes in this game, especially the first
one. They are quite important to the story. After being rudely awakened by Navi
you can begin playing. Look around your house. Inside buildings where the
camera is fixed in a single place, try pressing Up C to put the camera above
the room. This improves the graphics, but makes things a bit harder to see.
When you're ready, head out the door. The camera will briefly zoom out and show
you Kokiri Forest. It does this for each new area that you see the first time
you enter it. The camera will then focus on your best friend, Saria. Climb down
and talk to her, then head for the Deku Tree. You'll notice a map in the lower
right corner. This shows your current location and direction in yellow and the
place that you entered the area in red. The Deku Tree is to the east, so head
along the path, hopping across the blocks until you reach the Deku Tree...or
not. Mido appears to think that you're not fit to talk to the Deku Tree until
you have a shield and sword equipped.... Okay. I guess he doesn't take orders
from anyone, even the Deku Tree himself. You'll probably need to get the sword
first, since it's helpful for cutting down bushes and getting rupees, which you
need to use to purchase the shield.

The sword can be found by following the path back through the forest to the
hill just past your house. On top of the hill is the house of the Know-It-All
Brothers. If you need some help with the basics, talk to them. Next to their
house is the Forest Training Ground. You can't cut any of the bushes yet, and
you can't practice your sword techniques, so first you should get the sword.
You'll find a small tunnel leading to a small wooded area. You can read the
sign if you want. Wait until the giant boulder rolls by, then follow it around
until you reach a chest on top of a stump. Open it up to receive the Kokiri
Sword! Be sure to equip it on the Equipment Subscreen.

When you exit, you can practice Z-Targeting on the rocks, and you can read the
signs for more info. When you're confident in your sword techniques, start col-
lecting rupees. You'll need 40 for the Deku Shield. There's five rupees in the
shop itself on the right side, and you can get another five by going around the
spiral path around Saria's House, across the bridge, then over to Fado. You can
learn how to look around the area from her, or you can just take the rupees.
Chop the shrubs, walk through the tall grass, and jump across the blocks in the
pond under the waterfall for the rest (not the blocks leading to the Deku Tree,
the ones over by the waterfall). Once you have enough rupees, go to the Kokiri
Shop (you'll have to talk to another Kokiri Child about Z-Targeting before you
enter). Buy the Deku Shield, then equip it. Now try talking to Mido....

The path to the Deku Tree has three Deku Babas on it. They're the tame kind
that merely pop up and chomp away at air while you chop them and turn them into
a Deku Stick. These sticks can be assigned to the C buttons, and are useful as
torches. They are essential in your quest, since you'll often need to transfer
fire from one torch to another, or use fire to burn away large spider webs.

Once you reach the Deku Tree, another cutscene will take place. Make sure you
say yes when the Deku Tree asks if you're ready. Go on in.

-*- INSIDE THE DEKU TREE -*-

NEW ITEM: DEKU NUT
NEW ITEM: FAIRY SLINGSHOT / DEKU SEEDS

The inside of the Deku Tree is pretty easy. There are a few tough enemies, but
nothing you can't handle. The Deku Babas here are a little more rough. Z-Target
them and hold R to raise your shield just to be safe. When they attack and
bounce off, attack with your sword. Kill them to receive a Deku Nut. I usually
forget about these. They merely stun an enemy temporarily. You can use them if
you want. Anyway, kill the enemies and chop the plants, then head up the lad-
der. The path spirals around up the inside of the tree, and on the way up,
you'll find a chest. Inside is the Map, so be sure to take it. Ignore the rough
wall that Navi points out, that's for later. Continue on up the path. You
should have noticed by now that Link automatically jumps when you reach the
edge. Try to get used to it, it'll become natural. You'll eventually reach a
door. Navi will take an hour to explain how to open doors, then go ahead and
open it. Inside, a Deku Scrub will shoot a nut at you. Bounce it back with your
shield and he'll surrender. He'll explain how to prevent damage when falling.

In the next room, jump over to the stone floating in mid-air, which will then
fall and no longer be in mid-air. Climb up to the chest and open it to receive
the Fairy Slingshot! Navi will then point out the old ladder hanging over the
doorway. Give that Slingshot a test by firing a Deku Seed at the ladder. Woo
hoo! You're free!... Exit back out to the main room, then return to that rough
wall that Navi mentioned. Shoot all three Skulltulas with your slingshot, then
climb up to the top level. If you want, you can get the Compass by finding the
door on the top level, then entering. The room will lock as soon as you enter.
To exit, light a deku stick from the torch and take it to the other torch. Not
too difficult. To get the compass, step on the gray switch and jump across the
three rising platforms. There's a time limit, so don't take your time. Before
you leave, try and get to the little alcove on the side. Kill the small Gold
Skulltula on the back wall and take the token it leaves behind. You'll find out
what these tokens are for later on. For now, just kill as many of these smaller
golden spiders as you can, and be sure to take their tokens to prove that you
killed them. Return to the main room. There are three platforms with Skulltula
guards. Find the one with the heart at the end of it and kill the Skulltula.
This part is a bit tricky. Jump out to the heart, then aim yourself so that you
fall right into the middle of the large spider web in the middle of the floor.
It'll break, opening the hole to the lower level. If you need to leave, by the
way, you can climb up the rough wall.

You'll notice another Gold Skulltula on the bars. Shoot it with your slingshot,
but to get it, you must climb onto the ledge and jump over to it. After getting
it, step on the switch, then light a deku stick on fire. Look down into the
water. You'll see a raised part that you can walk on without falling in. Jump
down to it, being careful not to fall in and extinguish the flame. Run over to
the spider web, then whack it with the flaming deku stick to burn it up. Enter
the door to find another Deku Scrub who will give you a hint on how to enter
the Boss's room: 2-3-1. Remember, twenty-three is number one!... The door seems
to be locked, so shoot the gray eye with a Deku Seed. Shoot these eyes any time
you see them. The next room is tricky. You'll see a platform floating across
some water and a rotating spiked pole. You need to get into the water, find the
switch underwater, dive down to hit it, then return to where you entered (climb
out to the left of the switch. Now wait until the platform floats towards you,
jump down onto it, then ride it to the other side. If you don't hit the switch
or if you fail to reach the other side in time, the water will rise back up and
you'll get knocked off by the rotating spiked pole. On the other side, kill the
skulltula, then listen to Navi explain how to move boxes. You don't even need
to move the block to get up to the door.... By the way, I'll be referring to
these as Crescent Blocks for the rest of this walkthrough. You'll see them
often. Anyway, go through the door and don't move: turn around and whack the
door with your sword. Listen carefully to the sound effect it makes. Whack it
a couple more times for good measure, then kill the enemies in the room. Light
a deku stick on fire, then burn the web on the left. Kill the deku baba, then
go to the wall behind it. Hit it with your sword. Hit it a couple more times.
Listen to the sound it makes. Remember that sound. It means that that wall can
be bombed. You don't have any bombs, of course, but later in the game, you may
need to use that sound to test if a wall can be bombed. It's more of a TWAING
sound instead of a THONG sound. Anyway, burn the other web and crawl through
the hole.

Be careful not to fall off the area you are now in. You'll recognize the room,
obviously, but now you're on the other side that you couldn't reach before.
Kill the deku babas, then push the crescent block off the edge into the water.
Now you have permission to fall off. You can climb back up the crescent block
to return any time you need. Return to the torch on the other side, then light
a deku stick and jump over to the crescent block. Stand on the web in the mid-
dle of the floor and press the C button that the deku stick is assigned to.
Wheee! The stick will be extinguished, obviously, since murky water tends to
have that kind of effect on fire. If you're low on energy, grab a heart. Now
you'll need to make use of that 2-3-1 code that the Scrub gave you. When you
climb out of the water, three more scrubs will attack. Bounce back their nuts
in 2-3-1 order (middle, right, left). Catch the final one and talk to it to
learn how to defeat the boss....

- GIANT PARASITIC ARACHNID GHOMA -

Ghoma is quite easy, despite her nasty appearance (you'll notice this in other
bosses, too). To make her even notice you, press Up C and look into her eye.
Once she notices you, the battle will begin. Shoot her eye with a deku seed
only when it turns red. She'll be paralyzed for a few seconds, so Z-Target her
now green eye and do a couple jump-attacks by pressing A with your sword out.
You should be able to get two or three jump attacks in before she recovers.
She'll flee to the ceiling to lay some eggs. Before doing so, her eye turns red
again. I seem to remember that you can shoot her now, but don't quote me on
that. Once she lays the eggs, chop them up before they hatch to save some
trouble, then wait until she returns. Repeat the same strategy again until she
dies.

- AFTER GHOMA -

NEW QUEST ITEM: KOKIRI EMERALD
NEW ITEM: FAIRY OCARINA

Take the Heart Container she leaves behind, then enter the shining blue light.
You'll be teleported back outside. The Deku Tree will then explain a great deal
of info on Ganondorf, the Triforce, and the Spiritual Stones. He'll even give
you one: The Kokiri Emerald. He will then give you the instruction to leave the
forest and go to Hyrule Castle to talk to Princess Zelda. The exit from Kokiri
Forest is at the other end of the area from the Deku Tree. As you're leaving,
you'll receive a special gift from a special friend.

-*- HYRULE FIELD -*-

You'll get a sweeping glimpse of Hyrule Field first, then before you can see
any more, a large owl named Kaepora Gaebora will show up. He'll be appearing
frequently for the first part of your quest to give you hints and tips. This
time he'll tell you how to use maps.

Hyrule Field is a place that you'll be seeing a lot of throughout the course of
the game. Nothing really ever happens in it, but it's very important. You can
reach all of the main areas of the game from it. Not many enemies ever show up,
and you'll only ever see one person on it, but still, you'll be spending a lot
of time running across it.

It's difficult to cross Hyrule Field in a single day, but it can be done if you
cut corners and roll. You probably won't make it to the Hyrule Castle Town Gate
before the sun goes down and the gate rises. If you're not on one of the paths,
two Stalchildren will pop up to pester you. They'll die again after two hits
from your sword. Two more will pop up again after killing them. They'll con-
tinue to pop up (only two at a time) until the sun rises, at which point they
all burrow back underground. The gate also lowers when the sun rises.

Just so you know, Hyrule Castle Town is north, Kakariko Village is north-east,
Zora's River is east, Kokiri Forest is south-east, Lake Hylia is south-west,
and Gerudo Valley is west. Another useful tip: when the gate to Hyrule Castle
Town is lowered, you can walk straight up the chains. At the top, turn ninety
degrees (face the opposite side) and jump out (keep holding forward to roll on
impact). You can pick up a total of three Red Rupees (worth 20 each). Enter
town, go back outside, and repeat as desired.

-*- HYRULE CASTLE TOWN -*-

The first building you can enter is by the guard just inside the gate. It's the
guard outpost, and it's full of pots. Those pots contain even more rupees!...
But isn't it a bad idea to smash a bunch of pots right in front of that guard
over there? Maybe you should see what he has to say first.... What? What kind
of boring advice is that? Go ahead and use your sword and smash all those pots.
He won't do anything to stop you. By the way, there's another Gold Skulltula in
one of the wooden boxes near the guard; roll into it to break it open.

The rest of the town isn't quite so quiet. The town square is full of shoppers,
lovers, dog owners, cucco chasers, back-scratchers, historians, proud bearded
men, and all sorts of strange characters. You can take time to explore the town
and meet people, or you can just go ahead and talk to the small girl standing
in the middle of town. This girl's name is Malon, and she lives on Lon Lon
Ranch with her father, Talon. Her father has gone to Hyrule Castle to deliver
a shipment of milk, but he hasn't returned yet. Maybe you should check to see
what's going on at the castle.

-*- HYRULE CASTLE -*-

NEW TRADE ITEM: POCKET EGG

First of all, Kaepora Gaebora will have some more words of wisdom to speak to
you about the passage of time. Listen to him, then just try to get into the
castle.... Don't try too hard, mind you, you'll need an item before you really
get in. The guard won't let you in, because some dolt from town (the guy seen
laughing his head off) tried to sneak in, and because of him, they tightened
security so much that they won't let anything through. That dolt might have
some advice on how to get in.... Maybe you should return to town.

- SNEAKING IN -

The guy's advice isn't as good as my detailed description, but notice when you
return to town that Malon isn't there. Return to the castle to find her stand-
ing next to a vine on the cliff side. Talk to her to receive the Pocket Egg. It
can be kept in a pocket and incubated. Take it, then climb up the center vine.
Once on top of the cliff, walk along until you reach the archway. Don't cross
it, there's a guard at the other end. Instead, climb down the ladder or jump
off the other side. Be careful, there are guards all along the path, and some
in the field, too. Walk along until you reach the point where the side path
splits off. Look up the main path and notice the two guards. Look left until
you see another guard. Orient yourself in the direction directly halfway be-
tween the guard on the left and the guard in the middle (the left one on the
main path, I mean). Run straight between them. Now, carefully make your way
across the field. Stay away from the edges as much as possible. On the other
side, find the cliff with some rough stones. Climb up the rough stones, then
head straight for the Gossip Stone. Jump off, then hop in the moat. Float along
(looks like the King dropped some rupees...) until you hear snoring, then climb
out at the corner. Stay away from the gate. Instead, follow the snoring around
the corner to find Talon fast asleep. Now about that Pocket Egg.... It will
hatch into a mysteriously fully grown cucco in the morning. If it hasn't yet
hatched, you'll have to wait until morning.... To kill some time, push the two
milk crates over as far as you can towards Talon. Wait until morning, then take
out the cucco right next to Talon to wake him up. He'll take off in a hurry to
get back to Malon, so now you can move those crates into place. You should be
able to see quite easily where they should be dropped off to make a stack lead-
ing to the drainage tunnel. Once both of them are dropped in place, climb on,
then jump across to the outlet. Crawl through to reach the Castle Garden.

- CASTLE GARDEN -

You'll have fun trying to get through the garden at night.... It's quite im-
possible. You'll want to do this during the day. Y'know, with eight guards pa-
trolling the garden, you'd think they could do a much better job just putting
two at the entrance.... Anyway, then we wouldn't have a game, now, would we?
And Link would simply have to return to Kokiri Forest. Anyway, this part has a
great deal of patience and stealth involved. You'll have to wait until the
guards are out of the way or looking the other direction to sneak past. Don't
worry if you get caught, it happens to the best of us, even me. You'll just be
kicked out the door that you may have noticed on your way in (the one by the
milk crates). There are five stages to this: the first involves sneaking past
a single guard walking around a single statue. No problem. The second part is
a bit more tricky: two guards, two fountains. Wait until both of them are on
the other side, then sneak past. For the second part, I recommend taking the
high path and ignoring the rupees. It can be tricky, especially with the fixed
camera angle, but it's not too tough. The fourth stage has two guys and one
statue, so it's a bit tougher. Wait until they're on the other side, then run
past. For the fifth part, the camera angle switches. There are two guards cir-
cling around some hedges. You can kinda sneak around while behind one of the
guards, it's kinda hard to explain. Once you reach the end, turn left into the
tunnel leading to the courtyard.

- CASTLE COURTYARD -

NEW TRADE ITEM: ZELDA'S LETTER

You'll now find yourself in the peaceful Castle Courtyard. Take some time to
look at the beautiful blue sky, the lovely pink flowers, the neat little trees,
the art gallery in the window on the right (which gives you 20 rupees if you
shoot it with your slingshot), and the angry guard who will chuck a bomb at you
if you shoot the left window with your slingshot. Finally, talk to the small
girl looking through the window. This girl happens to be the one after whom the
game is named: Princess Zelda. It'll take quite a long time to get through the
entire cutscene, but just answer truthfully to her questions and listen care-
fully to everything she has to say. Finally, she'll give you a letter with her
autograph on it. This should be useful for giving you some royal authority.
Before you leave, you'll be given even more royal authority: Impa, Zelda's
nurse, will teach you Zelda's Lullaby. This song is extremely important. Play
it whenever you need to display royal authority or when you see the symbol of
the triforce. Impa will then teleport you to outside the town and show you your
next goal: Death Mountain. But before you go, you should first go south to Lon
Lon Ranch.

-*- LON LON RANCH -*-

NEW SONG: EPONA'S SONG
NEW ITEM: BOTTLE #1

Talon and Malon own this ranch, on which they raise horses, cows, and some
cuccos. The only worker, Ingo, is a bit disgruntled. He'll be causing some
trouble later on in the game. First, head out into the field where the horses
are running and find Malon in the middle with a small horse named Epona. Talk
to her twice, then take out your Ocarina. She'll notice it and teach you how to
play Epona's Song. This won't really seem useful until later in the game.

Return to the house you saw as you came in (the one that was on the left, now
on the right) and enter. Talon is fast asleep.... Now's your chance to cheat!
Pick up every last Cucco and throw it into the corner behind him. Don't throw
them onto the stairs because they'll jump off. Instead, get them all behind the
counter. It doesn't matter if one or two accidentally slip out, just keep most
of them in the corner. Now wake up Talon to play his Super Cucco game. Norm-
ally, he'll take his three Super Cuccos and throw them into the gaggle of
normal cuccos and expect you to find all three. It's easily possible, but it's
funny to see his jaw drop when you find all three when they're out in plain
sight. He doesn't even notice that you hid them all behind the counter... Oh,
yeah, the prize for winning is a glass bottle filled with Lon Lon Milk! You can
drink it twice to refill a few hearts of your energy, and if you want more, you
can always come back and ask Talon for more.

Also, if you want a piece of heart, there's one hidden in the large stone tower
on the other side of the ranch. Enter, then move the boxes until you open the
tunnel to a back room. Crawl through to find the piece of heart.

-*- THE LOST WOODS -*-

Return to Kokiri Forest and climb up the cliff behind Mido's house. Enter the
log tunnel to find the Lost Woods. You'll be returning here later, so hopefully
you'll memorize the path. The first time through, you can find your way through
by listening to the tunes of the Ocarina. If you pass near the right log,
you'll hear the Ocarina music get louder. It also helps if your TV is stereo.
The path from the beginning to the end is: right, left, right, left, forward,
left, right. Halfway through, Kaepora Gaebora will stop you to tell you about
how to listen to the music. Also, another way you can tell if a doorway is real
or fake is to look at the graphics. If the color is smooth, it's a door. If
there's a pattern of grayish-brown color leading to a single point, it's a warp
back to Kokiri Forest.

- SACRED FOREST MEADOW -

NEW SONG: SARIA'S SONG

The first time you enter, bars will be covering the entrance into the maze. To
open them, kill the wolfos that pops up. The only time it's vulnerable is when
it raises its arm to attack. Stab it quickly before it attacks. Once it's dead,
enter the maze. My memory isn't perfect, so all I can tell you is to first go
right... you'll figure out the rest. I'll be more specific when I update this.
Anyway, the camera will switch to an overhead view for the whole maze. The deku
scrubs in this area are a little less friendly, so don't feel bad about killing
them. Remember: they shoot three deku nuts at you. The first one is deflected
into the second one, and the third one is deflected back into them. Once they
start moving around, whack them with your sword. Continue on until you reach
the staircase up to the last area. Kill two more scrubs, then continue up the
other stairs. A cutscene will then take place in which you learn Saria's Song.
Play this song any time to talk to Saria.

To exit the Sacred Forest Meadow, climb the ladder at the base of the stairs to
reach the upper level. From there, you can simply hop across all the way to the
entrance of the maze. Exit through the log tunnel to once again meet Kaepora
Gaebora. He'll tell you about playing the Ocarina. It's pretty important, so
listen carefully. Once he's done, enter the tunnel either directly in front of
you or to your right to be returned to Kokiri Forest. Exit out into Hyrule
Field, then follow the eastern wall until you reach the river. Follow the river
north to the bridge. Cross it, then climb the stairs nearby to reach Kakariko
Village

-*- KAKARIKO VILLAGE -*-

NEW ITEM: BOTTLE #2

Yay! A town where you can change the camera angle!... Impa founded this peace-
ful village, just to let you know. A group of carpenters is (not very) busy
making improvements and constructing new buildings. Also, a local cucco keeper
(who happens to be allergic to cuccos) has lost all her cuccos. She'll ask you
to help her round up all seven of her cuccos. Here are the locations:

- Near the entrance
- Near the cucco coop
- Near the Death Mountain Trail
- In a box by the house at the base of the stairs (roll into it)
- By the Skulltula House (grab another cucco and jump off of the building
  under construction)
- On the other side of the fence near the Windmill (grab another cucco and
  jump off the left side of the path by the Windmill, steer left over the
  fence)
- On the cliff by the Windmill (see above, climb the ladder)

Once you return all seven cuccos to the cucco coop, she'll give you another
glass bottle!

- GRAVEYARD -

NEW SONG: SUN'S SONG
NEW EQUIPMENT: HYLIAN SHIELD

Next, you should learn a useful tune in the Kakariko Graveyard. The entrance
is near the chicken coop. At the back of the Graveyard is a large tombstone.
Stand on the triforce symbol and play Zelda's Lullaby. Enter, then shoot the
keese in the first room to unlock the door. In the next room, avoid eye contact
with the ReDeads. If they look at you, you'll be paralyzed, and you don't want
to know what comes next. Stay out of that green stuff, too, it's pretty nasty.
Head for the door in the back ASAP. Check the stone on the back wall to learn
the Sun's Song. This song controls the sun (i.e. turns night into day and vice-
versa) and can turn ReDeads into paralyzed white mummies that can't do a thing
to you. Make sure you give it a try as you exit.

The Sun's Song may have sent the sun down, so if it did, play it again to turn
it back to day. Now return to Kakariko and go to the gate blocking the path to
Death Mountain. The guard won't let you through without royal permission. Guess
what: you happen to have a letter with Princess Zelda's signature on it. Show
that to him to... make him laugh at you. He'll open the door anyway when he
sees the serious expression on your face, but he'll still laugh.... He'll also
recommend that you get a Hylian Shield from the Bazaar in town. He'll also tell
them to give you a discount! Return to Hyrule Castle Town and enter the Bazaar
(the building to the left of the potion shop and to the right of the Temple of
Time). Sure enough, the guy will give you close to 50% off! Before you return
to Kakariko, though, you should thank the guard by borrowing the Keaton Mask
from the Happy Mask Shop. As you pass the guard on your way up to Death Mount-
ain, be sure to talk to him again while wearing the mask to start the Mask Side
Quest (see the SIDE QUEST section for details).

-*- DEATH MOUNTAIN TRAIL -*-

The tektites aren't very dangerous. Two sword swipes will kill each one. On
your way up the trail, talk to the yellowish rock by the large boulder. It will
stand up and tell you about the Goron people. The Gorons are a rock-like people
that eat rocks.... Their city is just up the trail, so keep going up the trail
to reach Goron City.

-*- GORON CITY -*-

NEW UPGRADE: GORON BRACELET

Talk to the gorons, especially the one out on the small platform suspended by
the three ropes (carefully walk out on the rope to reach him). He has some info
on the Spiritual Stone that you're looking for. Drop down to the bottom floor,
then find the sealed door with the plush carpet outside it. Play Zelda's Lul-
laby to get Darunia to open the door, then talk to him to find out that he's
a bit angry. Hmmm, maybe some ocarina music would cheer him up. Try playing
Saria's Song.... He'll, uh, well, erm, you'll see for yourself. Once he's done,
he'll give you the... Goron Bracelet. Not exactly what you were hoping for.
Apparently, Ganondorf has been causing some more trouble: he sealed off the
entrance to Dodongo's Cavern. To make things worse, he's also awakened the do-
dongos, so it's too dangerous for the gorons to enter. The gorons have eaten
the top sirloin rocks from inside the Dodongo's Cavern for so long that they
can't eat normal rocks because they taste so horrible.... Maybe they should try
eating something like meat. Anyway, Darunia won't give you the spiritual stone
until you kill the dodongo's in Dodongo's Cavern.

Before you leave, you should take the stairs up one level, then find the door
that has Saria's Song playing out of it. No, you haven't created a new craze
for Saria's Song with the Gorons, that's actually Saria playing that, except
it's coming out of a looooong tunnel that leads all the way back to the Lost
Woods. The problem is that it's being blocked by large boulders. No problem,
just walk up to one of those bomb flowers and use your new bracelet to pick it
up. Set it right back down, yell "fire in the hole!", run away, then watch...
hissssssssssss...KABOOM!... KABOOM KABOOM!!! Now you can easily go from the
Lost Woods to Goron City.

Now, exit Goron City through the upper entrance, then take the right path when
you exit. You'll find a goron shading a single Bomb Flower from the sun. Pick
the bomb, then chuck it right over the short part in the fence. The bomb should
land right next to the large boulder blocking Dodongo's Cavern. Hop down, then
enter.

-*- DODONGO'S CAVERN -*-

NEW ITEM: BOMB BAG

The entrance into the actual cavern is sealed, and nearby will be two bomb
flower plants. Pick one and chuck it at the door to enter. In the central cham-
ber, there are three platforms around a central platform that rise and lower.
You must wait until they are at their highest point before jumping off of them.
If you want the map, you should first get to the left side and bomb the door in
the middle. Also, if you need to defeat the Beamos (the statues that fire beams
at you out of a rotating eye), pick a bomb flower and throw it at them. The map
is in the center doorway on the left side. FYI, the image on the map when you
first take it out of the chest is actually the map for Dodongo's Cavern, though
it's used on all the maps in the whole game. Cross over to the other side and
enter the door on the right.

In the next room, slash the baby dodongos, then run away before they explode.
Ignore Navi when she flies away to a higher area, you can't get there until
much later in the game (a gold skulltula is hiding up there, just ignore it).
Once you reach the other end of the room, pull one of the armos statues onto
the switch to open the door. Climb up, then enter. Kill any enemies, then enter
the next room.

In this room, two Lizalfos will take turns attacking you. To defeat them, first
stun them with a deku nut as soon as they reach your platform, then use a jump
attack. Once it recovers, let them jump over you (keep your shield up), then
stab it quickly. It'll run away and let the other one take over. Repeat this
strategy until they both are killed and the door is unlocked. In the next room,
first kill all the juvenile dodongos by slashing their tail then dodging their
fire-breath. I strongly recommend switching to the hylian shield here, since
your wooden deku shield won't stand up to the fiery attacks of the dodongos.
The fire keese also have that effect. You also need at least one deku stick in
this room, so if you're out, bomb the bombable wall to find a salesman scrub
who will sell you one. Once the dodongos are out of the way, light a deku stick
at the lit torch, then light the other three torches in the room to open the
door. In the tunnel, step on the switch to unlock the door on the other side of
the central chamber. Be careful not to fall off the edge before stepping on the
switch or else you will have to redo what you've done. Once the door is un-
locked, cross over and enter.

If you care about getting the compass, ignore the giant out-of-reach stairway
and bomb the door. Enter, chuck a bomb into the group of armos statues to wake
up the center one, then pick another bomb and throw it into the center of the
room. Position yourself so that the bomb is between you and the armos statue so
that it comes toward you and gets blown up. Open the chest to receive the com-
pass. Exit back into the room with a million bomb flowers and the giant stair-
way. That stairway leads to the second floor, but it's too high to reach. So,
pick the lone bomb flower and place it in the gap in the bomb flowers right in
front of the stairs.... kaBOOM!... KABOOM KABOOM KABOOM KABOOM KABOOOOOOOOOM!!!
Climb up the stairs and ignore the gold skulltula in the alcove above, it's im-
possible to reach until later in the game. Continue up the ramp to the vines
with two more skulltulas. Kill both and take the one golden token. The next
room has fire keese, so switch to the hylian shield if you haven't already.
Shoot them down with the slingshot if desired, then find the one armos statue
who's blocking the ladder. Push it out of the way, then climb up to press the
button to open the door. Be careful not to fall off the bridge. You'll have to
take the gap in the middle at a pretty good run, though.

Once on the other side, enter, then avoid the razor traps. Get to the other
side of the room and pull out the crescent block until it stops. Climb on, then
hop up to the platform with the bomb flower. This part is a bit tricky: once
you pick it, wait for it to flash about seven or eight times, then throw it at
the bombable doorway above the ladder. It may take several tries to get the
timing right. Once the wall is gone, hop to the ladder and climb up. Continue
on until you reach the fiery platform. Above the door on the other side is an
eye switch. Shoot it with your slingshot to make the fire go away, then hop
across. In the next room, you'll have a rematch with the lizalfos. It even
takes place in the same room, except one floor up. After the battle, you can
even hop across the platforms to the narrow platform leading to some refill
hearts. Below, you can see the room where you fought the other lizalfos.

Enter the now unlocked door to find another fiery platform and an eye switch.
Shoot the eye switch, hop to the platform, then... uh-oh, more fire, and shoot-
ing the eye again won't help. Turn left to find another eye switch. Shoot it,
then continue. You'll now be in the room with the razor traps again, but this
time you'll be higher up. Be careful not to fall down as you jump across, then
hop up and open the chest to receive the Bomb Bag! What a lucky guy!! Now you
can place bombs anywhere even without a bomb flower! Be careful, though, the
time limit is shorter, so it may take some time to get used to it.

Continue through the door and press the switch to make one of the pillars begin
to rise all the way up to the upper level. It'll lower again, so you can use it
to return to the upper level any time. Not that you'll need to, but it's just a
precaution in case you accidentally fall down. You should now be able to reach
the other bridge which passes over the giant dead dodongo. If your deku shield
was burned, cross the bridge the whole way to find a new one, or you can buy
one later. Notice the two holes in the bridge. Drop a bomb into each one so
that they fall into the dodongo's eye sockets. Once both eyes have turned red,
the mouth will open, giving you access to the final area of the dungeon. Hop
down and enter. This place has several fire keese, so make sure you're using
the hylian shield. Enter the door on the right, then continue to the next room.
If you care, there's a gold skulltula in the side room. Anyway, climb up to the
higher level using the crescent block, then get to the door. If you have an
empty bottle, break the two jars to find a fairy. Use the bottle to catch it.
These fairies can save you if you die. Enter the door and push the crescent
block off the edge. Pull it away from the wall, then push it into the hole in
the center of the room to unlock the door to the final chamber. Enter, then
open the chest to receive some extra bombs. Bomb the floor in the center to
reach the boss.

- INFERNAL DINOSAUR KING DODONGO -

This guy looks pretty scary, but he's kinda wimpy. The hylian shield is a must
whenever he rolls around. When he opens his mouth, chuck a bomb inside, then
wait until he collapses. Jump attack and slash him until he recovers, then
raise your shield when he rolls over you. Repeat this strategy until he rolls
himself into the lava. Don't worry, his body cools it down enough for you to
walk on it. Take the heart container, then enter the light.

- AFTER KING DODONGO -

NEW QUEST ITEM: GORON'S RUBY
NEW UPGRADE: MAGIC POWER
NEW TRADE ITEM: SKULL MASK
NEW SPELL: DIN'S FIRE

Back outside, Darunia will hop down and make you his sworn brother. As a reward
for reopening the cavern and killing the dodongos, he'll give you the Goron
Ruby. The rest of the gorons will show up and, well... you'll see for yourself.
Next, you should climb up to the summit of Death Mountain. With your new bombs,
you can break up the boulders blocking the path. The mountain is quite volcanic
so you'll have to block the falling rocks using your hylian shield. Raise it
when the shadow around you grows larger, or if you happen to see a rock that's
about to fall on your head. The volcanic activity will die down, then start up
again. Once you reach the cliff, the rocks will cease to fall. Shoot the skull-
tulas with your slingshot, then climb up the cliff. The doorway on the right
leads into the heart of the volcano, but it's too dangerous for you to survive
very long at this point in your quest. Ignore Kaepora Gaebora for now and bomb
the door on the left. Enter to find the first Fairy Fountain. Play Zelda's Lul-
laby on the symbol of the triforce. Get ready for pure ugliness. The fairy will
appear, laughing like a maniac. She'll give you magic power and the upgraded
spin-attack. If you hold down the B Button, you'll charge up the spin attack.
However, this uses up magic power. To conserve magic power, rotate the Control
Stick quickly and press B right after to do a quicker instant spin attack. It
takes a lot of practice, but it's worth it once you get it down. Fortunately,
the fairy will return to her fountain.... Unfortunately, though, you'll be see-
ing her relatives later in the game.

When you exit, talk to Kaepora Gaebora and accept his offer of a ride back to
Kakariko. Before jumping off the roof, though, hop down on the right side (the
side with the cucco pen). You'll land on the small platform above the cucco
coop. Enter the small doorway to reach the Piece of Heart behind the bars in
Impa's old house. Now, if you want to, return to Hyrule Castle Town. The Happy
Mask shop should now have the Skull Mask (assuming you sold the Keaton Mask to
the Kakariko Guard). Borrow it, then return to Hyrule Castle. Remember the side
path? It leads to another ugly fairy. Bomb it open, then enter to receive the
first magic spell: Din's Fire. This useful spell creates a huge fireball all
around you to burn enemies and light torches. It consumes quite a lot of magic
power, though, so go easy on it.

By the way, next time you're in the area of Kokiri Forest (maybe when you save
and turn it off next?), be sure to go to the Lost Woods. Immediately take a
left to find one of the Skull Kids, one of which will be causing all sorts of
trouble in the sequel.... This one's friendly, though, and it isn't a klepto-
maniac, so go ahead and hop up onto the stump and take out your Ocarina. Play
Saria's Song for him. He'll recognize it and give you a Piece of Heart as a
sign of friendship. Stay on the stump and put on the Skull Mask. Talk to him to
get him interested in purchasing it from you.

-*- ZORA'S RIVER -*-

You'll probably travel along this river many times in your quest, though there
are two shortcuts that bypass it, though you can't reach either of them yet.
First, you'll receive more advice from good ol' Kaepora Gaebora. He'll give you
some friendly advice on how to get past the upcoming waterfall. I can be just
as friendly, too, and I'm a bit more specific than he is, so you can ignore him
if you want. Bomb the blockade of boulders and pick up the Cucco on the other
side. Use it to hop across the river to the other side. You can get rid of it
now if you want, or you can hold on to it as you travel up the river. Continue
along the path, hop across the gap, follow the ledge jump onto the shore,
ignore the colorful froggies in the river, and hop up and cross the river. Ig-
nore the octorok, cross the bridge, and now you'll see the aforementioned
waterfall. Hop across the ledges to the one closest to the waterfall and stand
on the Triforce symbol. Play Zelda's Lullaby to temporarily block up the water-
fall, opening up the doorway to Zora's Domain.

-*- ZORA'S DOMAIN -*-

NEW UPGRADE: SILVER SCALE

This peaceful place is home to the Zoras, a race of half-fish half-man crea-
tures. They're not exactly merpeople, they're closer to fish, but they have two
arms, one head, and two legs... hmmm, let's get her!... Sorry, I promise, no
more Super Mario Bros. movie quotes :) FYI, older players who remember the old-
school Legend of Zelda for the NES may remember that the water monsters were
called Zola. This confusion came from the fact that the "r" sound in Japanese
is unlike anything in English, and is often translated as either r or l. A sim-
ilar confusion was the cause of the Zebes-Zebeth mix-up in Metroid. Anyway,
back to OoT. You can talk to the zoras if you want to; they're all pretty
friendly. Climb up the path leading to a looong staircase which leads to King
Zora VI. Talk to him to find out that the Princess Ruto has mysteriously van-
ished. Take the tunnel on the left and talk to the zora at the end. He'll chal-
lenge you to a little diving game. Pay him and he'll chuck a few rupees off the
big, tall waterfall into the pool below. You have 50 seconds to dive off the
waterfall, then dive into the water (using the A button) to retrieve all five
blue rupees. Once you have them all, return to the Zora above and talk to him
to receive the Silver Scale. This increases the amount of time you can dive
under water! Now you can reach the small hole under the lower pool....

-*- LAKE HYLIA -*-

The warp from Zora's Domain puts you right where you need to be: a message in a
bottle found it's way into the warp, too, and is sitting on the lake floor
nearby. Dive down and grab it, then return to shore to find out what it says.
Apparently, it's from Princess Ruto. She doesn't want her father to know....
Well, how else are you going to save her? Return through the warp, then swim
over into the shallows and use the empty bottle to catch one of the small blue
fish, then climb up to the King. Show him Ruto's letter, then wait for him to
slowly but surely scoot over and open the path that leads to Zora's Fountain.

-*- ZORA'S FOUNTAIN -*-

NEW ITEM: FARORE'S WIND

First, another spell is hidden nearby. Ignore Jabu-Jabu for now and go to the
right into the lake. Swim across to the shore on the other side (in the lower
right corner of the map). Bomb the wall to open up a cave. Enter, play Zelda's
Lullaby, then look away as the ugly fairy pops out of the fountain again. She
gives you Farore's Wind, which allows you to set a warp point inside a dungeon,
then warp to that room later if you need to. Return to the platform in front of
Lord Jabu-Jabu and open the bottle with the fish in it. He'll suck it in, and
you along with it.

-*- INSIDE JABU-JABU'S BELLY -*-

NEW ITEM: BOOMERANG
NEW QUEST ITEM: ZORA'S SAPPHIRE

First, kill the two Octoroks, and maybe the Shaboms, too (the large bubbles
floating around). Any attack, including letting them hit you, will pop them.
The Octoroks can be killed by Z-Targeting them and raising the Deku Shield to
bounce their rocks off. Once the enemies are out of the way, shoot the uvula
(the white switch) on the roof of his throat. The door will unlock and allow
you to enter the esophagus. Ignore the bari (small jellyfish) for now, you
can't kill them yet. Continue onward into the stomach. At this point, you'll
find Princess Ruto standing dangerously close to a mysterious hole in the big
fish's stomach. She'll greet you rather rudely and then proceed to fall down
the mysterious ugly hole. The only way you'll make it in this dungeon is to get
her help, so hop down after her. Talk to her twice to finally convince her to,
uh, let you carry her. She sees it as a "privilege." I see it as hard work. You
can pick her up once she sits down, and then you can throw her if you need to
get rid of her (or if you need to move her to higher ground). Also note that
you can open doors while carrying her.

Enter the nearby door and continue through the, er, whatever this place is.
There are plenty of shaboms in this passage, so either kill them or dodge them.
Once you reach the next big room, throw Ruto onto the platform on the other
side and let her sit there. Shoot the Skulltula on the rough wall and kill the
stingers if desired, then hit the switch in the middle. Get the Skulltula token
ASAP, then hurry over to the other side and climb out. Grab Ruto and continue
through the following tunnel (you can throw her into the switch if you like,
she won't complain). Once in the spinal passage, drop Ruto and kill the Octo-
rok, then grab Ruto and hop onto the vertebrae once it reaches your level. Ride
it on up back to the upper level and hop off. Return to the stomach and BE SURE
YOU DON'T FALL DOWN THE HOLES!!! If you do, you'll have to restart from where
you first fell down. Instead, go through the stomach and enter the intestinal
passageways and rooms. First, go to the right and use Ruto's added weight on
the tough switch. Enter the room and kill all the stingers to make the Boomer-
ang's chest appear. Take it, then exit and enter the room on the opposite side
of the intestines. You'll see a large red tentacle drop down from the ceiling.
Z-Target it, then throw the boomerang when it drops down all the way while re-
volving around it to avoid it's swinging attacks. The boomerang must hit the
weak spot at the top to kill it. The map will then appear; take it and exit.
With the death of the first tentacle, one or two of the ugly green pulsating
veins will disappear, opening up new paths. The room on your left immediately
after exiting contains a plethora of shaboms and the compass. The room on the
other side has another tentacle. The room in the center has the last tentacle,
an ugly green one. Once it's killed, the green pulsating vein in the stomach
will disappear. When you return to the stomach, do NOT fall down the first hole
that you see. Go to the one past it and on it's right, close to the wall. These
directions are relative to the intestines, so if you're coming in from the
beginning, these directions will be wrong.

Once you drop down, the Boomerang will get you two more skulltulas (it'll bring
back the tokens, as well). With the boomerang, you can now kill the bari float-
ing around. Be careful not to fall down. Enter the door and Ruto will suddenly
flail her arms and yell "That's it!" Throw her up onto the platform.... She'll
disappear, and in her place, a big ugly monster will appear: Bigocto. If you
don't do this right, he will annoy you for a very very VERY long time. You must
throw the Boomerang at him when he has his back turned to you and when you're
in range. When he's stunned, jump attack him. He'll probably turn around and
trample you, though. The problem is, he runs around in a circle while the
platform in the center rotates, plus it has spikes sticking out of it. His
speed is about the same as yours, so if you plan on chasing him, be ready for
a long wait. To catch up to him, run as close as you can to the spikes without
touching them, a job harder than it should be due to the N64's polygonal struc-
ture. Once he's in Z-Targeting range, chuck the boomerang and jump attack him.
Once he's dead, hop on the elevator and ride it up to the top floor.

Kill the octorok in the next room, then throw your boomerang at both of the
wobbly muscles. Hop across them before they get rid of their lactic acid (okay,
sorry, no more dumb Biology jokes either) and go through the door. You're now
at the top of the, er, spinal column (okay, no more NEW dumb Biology jokes :)
Please be nice to yourself and don't fall down. Hop across to the other verte-
brae elevetor and ride it down. The elevator now bridges the path to the final
room! Yay!... Now if only Ruto were here to weigh down this dumb switch. Maybe
those boxes that Jabu-Jabu swallowed would work?... Those ones that landed in
his spine. Drop one onto the switch and enter the door. One more room lies be-
tween you and another really ugly monster. Kill the bari and the golden skull-
tula on the rough wall, then climb up to the top. The switch to the door is on
the ceiling, but there's a lymph node, uhhh, I mean a barrier in the way. This
will take a few tries. It would probably help to Z-Target the switch as well.
Once you hit the switch, enter the final door to the boss....

- BIO-ELECTRIC ANEMONE BARINADE -

One of the game's uglier monsters, Barinade is made up of a central nucleus,
some parasitic tentacles attached to the ceiling (which can be broken with the
boomerang), a rotating array of bari, and some more tentacles which shoot bolts
of electricity at you. Again, Z-Target and rotate around Barinade to dodge the
electricity, then boomerang the brain and jump attack it. If it sinks into the
floor, first kill off the bari with your boomerang (after stunning the nucleus)
and then try again. Continue to stun the brain and jump attack it until it
dies.

- AFTER BARINADE -

NEW QUEST ITEM: ZORA'S SAPPHIRE

Princess Ruto has a little surprise for you. After that, you can either return
to the Castle Town and watch the cool cutscene or look for more Pieces of Heart
and Skulltulas before a major event occurs. You can always get them later,
though. When you're ready, go to Hyrule Castle Town to continue....

-*- STORY: PART II -*-

-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
*-*-* MAJOR SPOILER *-*-*
-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

NEW ITEM: OCARINA OF TIME
NEW SONG: SONG OF TIME
NEW EQUIPMENT: MASTER SWORD

  Rain pounded onto his face as Link looked at what he now recognized as the
protective walls of Hyrule Castle Town. The great wooden door opened down to
reveal the rest of what he also recognized as the town. The silvery chain links
reflected the flashes of lighting. Link dreaded what he would see next.
  A large four-legged animal came bursting out of the doorway at top-speed,
nearly running him over. As he turned to look at the shrinking figure, he saw
Princess Zelda and Impa on the animal. Zelda shrieked and struggled out of
Impa's protective hug, then threw a small blue object into the moat. Link spun
around to face an enormous black figure on another four legged creature. Link
recognized him as the man with the evil eyes from Hyrule Castle. The man
searched the horizon carefully before turning and asking Link where Zelda went.
Link bravely remained silent as the man laughed a deep laugh. Link armed him-
self, but Ganondorf, the evil King of Thieves knocked him down with a simple
spell. Ganondorf took off into the night as Link slowly got to his feet.
  Once confident that Ganondorf was gone, Link remembered the small blue object
that Zelda had desperately thrown into the moat. He retrieved it and returned
to the surface to admire the glowing blue light of the Ocarina of Time. Sudden-
ly, an image of Princess Zelda filled Link's mind. She taught Link the Song of
Time, the song that would open the Door of Time and give Link access to the
Master Sword, the Sacred Realm, and most important of all, the Triforce....
  Link hurried to the Temple of Time to the east of the busy shoppers. The
three Spiritual Stones took their places, prompting Link to play the Song of
Time in front of the door. The chamber beyond housed the Master Sword. Link
entered the sacred chamber and pulled the sword from it's pedestal.

  But Ganondorf had tricked Link and Zelda. He was secretly waiting for Link to
gather the three stones and open the door so that Ganondorf could take the Tri-
force for himself! But when Ganondorf touched the Triforce, the holy triangles
sensed that his spirit was out of balance, way out of balance. His heart de-
sired power, not wisdom and courage. The Triforce split into three pieces, one
of which went to Ganondorf, and the other two which remained hidden for seven
years, seven long and evil years in which Ganondorf used his new Power to turn
Hyrule into a land of darkness....



-*- AFTER SEVEN YEARS -*-

NEW RIDE: EPONA
NEW SONG: SONG OF STORMS
NEW ITEM: HOOKSHOT
NEW SONG: MINUET OF FOREST

There are a couple of things you should do first before you enter the next
temple. To even reach the temple, you will need a new tool, but first, you
should also help out some old friends at Lon Lon Ranch.

During those seven years, Ganondorf has taken over Hyrule and has turned it in-
to a world of monsters. Due to the lack of sufficient memory in the N64, this
isn't exactly noticeable, but still, the world is worse than it used to be.
Ingo, the disgruntled ranch worker, has succeeded in kicking lazy old Talon off
of the ranch and has taken over. Malon can't do anything because Ingo will mis-
treat the horses if she disobeys him. Talk to Ingo and ask to ride around on a
horse for a while. As soon as you're in the field, play Epona's Song to find
your old friend. Climb up and ride around. Use the A Button to speed up. To get
your ten rupees back, jump the fences straight on and at a good fast speed.
Practice riding until your time is up. Talk to Ingo again and call Epona again,
then Z-Target Ingo and talk to him. He should compliment you on your improving
abilities and will challenge you to a race. Being a betting man, he'll wager
fifty rupees that he can beat you. Now for the tricky part....

Your first goal should be getting in front of Ingo, since he tends to cheat and
give himself a small head start. Use any carrots necessary to get right in
front of him and block him. Make sure he doesn't pass you. If he does, wait un-
til more carrots appear, then use them to speed up and take the lead. After
winning the first race, he'll go crazy. He'll now challenge you to a second
race with a higher bet: the horse. If you win, you get to keep her. He's a lit-
tle harder this time, but if you beat him, you get to keep Epona... but you
don't get to leave the ranch. Ingo thinks he can keep you locked in, but you've
got a strong and powerful friend under you. Get up to speed and jump the gate
head-on to get out.

Now that you have a faster means of transportation, you can call her from Hy-
rule Field, Lake Hylia, Gerudo Valley, and Gerudo Fortress using Epona's Song.
Unfortunately, she can't swim, so you can't take her up Zora's River. She's
also afraid of stairs, so you can't take her into Kakariko Village. You don't
need to, anyway. Speaking of Kakariko, you should probably listen to Sheik's
advice and go to Kakariko next.

Most of the townspeople have taken refuge in Kakariko by now, so you can talk
to them. Talon is sleeping like a baby in one of the houses. The laughing twins
mention something about the ghost of Dampé sinking into his grave.... Maybe you
should check out the Graveyard. Sure enough, the old gravedigger is nowhere to
be seen. His hut is empty, except for a diary entry about a fun new tool that
he found. His grave is the one on the far left in the row of gravestones along
the left wall. Pull it open, then hop inside. Dampé's ghost will challenge you
to a race. You don't actually have to beat him, you just have to keep up. He'll
drop flames to "guide" you (and to kill you), so try not to run into them, they
hurt. Follow him through a maze of tunnels and caverns until you reach the fin-
al chamber. Dampé will give you his fun tool as a prize: the Hookshot! This
useful tool is very important. It shoots a hook into objects, usually wooden
ones, and pulls you toward it on a spring-loaded chain. You can use it on
torches, treasure chests, trees, small hookshot targets, roofs, and a few other
things like injured Gerudo kings, er, I mean, uh,... never mind.

Before you leave, you should learn a new song just so that you don't have to
bother learning it later. Head over to the Windmill and talk to Bob the Crazy
Windmill Guy. He'll tell you about a little punk with an Ocarina who played a
song seven years ago that messed up the Windmill. He'll even teach you that
song. As soon as you play it, he'll realize that you're the little punk and
will go kinda crazy...hence his name. Oh, yeah, heh.... The song is called the
Song of Storms, and it's used to call a rainstorm wherever you happen to be,
even inside or underground. It also has a habit of unlocking underground grot-
toes.

Armed with your new toy, return to Kokiri Forest to find that it has been in-
fested with what the Kokiri Children call "meanies." No kidding. Some of them
are even blue!... Okay, no more Beatles jokes. The Deku Babas have grown in
size considerably since you last encountered them. They're huge. You can use
the Hookshot to stun them, then jump attack them. All the Kokiri are hiding in-
side their homes, except for two: Mido and Saria. Neither of them are around.
Climb up and enter the Lost Woods. On your way to the Sacred Forest Meadow,
you'll find Mido guarding the next tunnel. Play Saria's Song for him and he'll
let you pass. In the Sacred Forest Meadow, use the Hookshot to kill the large
moblins (ka-CHINK-"HHRRRRMMMMMMMM!"). It's always fun to be stabbed by a crazy
moblin and thrown into a pool of water. If you're actually trying to avoid them
(it's so fun to get hit!), try to avoid their line of sight, then shoot them
from behind. If they lower their spear, it's really hard to hit them from the
front. At the end of the maze, a really really really big moblin guards the
path. Stay to one side at first, then weave back and forth to dodge his earth-
shaking attacks. Once you're behind him, he'll ignore you, so whack away at his
legs until he dies >:-)

Once you reach the top of the stairs, you'll notice that Saria isn't there.
Sheik will appear and teach you the Minuet of Forest. There are six songs like
this that will teleport you instantly to the triforce platforms scattered ac-
ross Hyrule in front of each temple. Once you're ready, use the Hookshot on the
tree branch, then enter the temple.

-*- FOREST TEMPLE -*-

NEW ITEM: FAIRY BOW

If you want to, go ahead and defeat the two wolfos. It's easier if you use the
spin-attack (it saves magic if you spin the control stick and then quickly hit
B, but it takes practice to do it like that). Once they're out of the way,
climb up the ivy on the wall. Hop onto the tree and shoot the nearby skulltula
for another token. Hop over to the other tree or use the hookshot to reach a
small chest which contains a small key. Hop down and enter the door. Shoot the
skulltula with your hookshot (one hit anywhere is enough, you don't have to
shoot him in the back), then enter the door at the end of the corridor. You'll
see a quick cutscene in which four female poes steal the four different flames
in the torches, causing the elevator in the middle of the floor to sink down.
Your ultimate goal is to defeat the four poes, which will return the four
flames to the torches and raise the elevator, which then allows you to reach
the bottom floor.

First, enter the door on the other side of the room (up the stairs). Defeat the
Blue Bubble by Z-Targeting it, bouncing it off your shield, then attacking it
with your sword. Enter the next room and defeat the two Stalfos. Once they're
gone, take the small key in the chest and return to the main room. There are
two doors on the main floor, one is barred by bars and the other is blocked by
a block. The mini-door is for Mittens to go and... never mind. You can't do
anything about the bars yet because you can't use the Fairy Slingshot anymore,
so you'll have to get that block out of the way. Note the pattern on the block.
Haven't you seen that before? That's right, the Door of Time. These blue blocks
appear in many places, and they can all be moved by playing the Song of Time.
Once it's out of the way, enter the West Courtyard. Ignore everything here
except for the wall of ivy with three skulltulas. You can bring down two with
your hookshot, but the third is out of reach. You'll just have to quickly sneak
past it. Stay as far to the right on the ivy as you possibly can, then quickly
climb past the skulltula and up to the door. It may knock you off, or it may
knock you up. Enter the door and defeat the Blue Bubble to receive the dungeon
map. Enter the next door to find yourself on a balcony in the East Courtyard.
Shoot the small black and white target with your Hookshot (I'll be referring
to these as Hookshot targets for the rest of the walkthrough) to reach the
other balcony. Step on the switch to drain the nearby well, then hop down to
the ground. If you want another Gold Skulltula, use the hookshot on the small
chest on the ledge nearby. It's hard to position yourself in the right place,
but it's worth it. Once you have the token, head over to the well and hop in.
Follow the tunnel until you reach the chest at the end, which contains a small
key. Climb out of the well and exit the West Courtyard to return to the central
room.

There's only one accessible door remaining. Use a key on it and kill the skull-
tula, then enter the next room. This room is quite high and a bit confusing.
There are two blocks that must be moved in order to get higher. Climb the first
two ladders, then find the green block. Pull it out until it's all the way out
of the corridor, then push it to the right until it stops. Run around through
where it was and to the right, then push it all the way until it sinks down and
you hear that little tone that means you solved something. Don't climb up it
yet. Return to where it was originally to find a ladder. Climb up, then make
two right turns to find the red block. Push it as far as it'll go, then return
to the floor below and climb up onto the green block. From there, climb up to
the next level and then push the red block until it falls into place, hop on,
hop off, take a right, climb the ladder, kill the Blue Bubbles, and finally
enter the locked door.

This next corridor still makes my brain hurt. Not that it's hard, it's just a
bit... unusual. The entire corridor is twisted ninety degrees to the right. As
you walk through it, you stay upright while the corridor turns. In the next
room, you'll see a large blue chest on the wall. That's for later. What you
need to worry about is that large scary shadow forming under you. It's probably
my least favorite enemy in the entire Zelda series: the Wallmaster. It's very
important that you always avoid these enemies. They appear later in the game in
other temples, too. If these large hands manage to fall on you, they'll pull
you out of the temple. If Navi warns you of enemies hanging from above and / or
if you hear the familiar WHOOOOOOOOOOO... sound and see a large shadow forming
under you, START RUNNING! It'll follow you until it's about to fall, so make
sure its shadow is not under you when it falls. Kill it to prevent it from
falling again. Anyway, enter the next door to find a staircase with three poe
paintings. Ignore them for now and enter the door at the bottom. You'll now be
in the same room where you found the second key with the two Stalfos, but this
time, you're up above and there's a big hole in the floor. Defeat the first
Stalfos to make the rest of the floor and two more Stalfos drop down. You have
to beat them rather quickly, since if you take too long killing the second one,
the first one comes back to life. Once they're gone, open the chest to receive
the Fairy Bow! Yay! W00t!

Before you continue, you have a few things to do with this new bow. First, go
back through the door with red carpeting. Find the painting with the poe in it
and shoot it. Don't get too close or else she'll move to a different painting.
Once you shoot all three paintings while she's in them, you'll have a chance to
fight the first of the four Poe Sisters: Joelle. She'll disappear and start
spinning, so Z-Target and raise your shield. When she reappears, jump-attack
her until she, uh, dies? How do you kill a ghost? It's already dead! Oh well.
The flame will return to the central room and a chest with a small key will ap-
pear. You'll need another one to continue, though, so go back through the Twis-
ted Corridor and shoot the eye switch above it. This will untwist the corridor
and allow you to reach the wall in the room beyond. First, open the large blue
chest to receive the Boss Key, which allows you to enter the boss room. Now hop
down through the hole and kill the two Blue Bubbles to proceed. Exit to find
yourself on the balcony of the West Courtyard. Carefully hop over to the arch
and walk along until you're in range of the Skulltula. Grab it with the Hook-
shot, then hop back and enter the door on the left to find another small key.
Hop down and return to the twisted corridor, being sure to shoot the eye switch
to re-twist it. Continue past the room where you found the bow to find another
staircase. Do the same thing to make the second Poe Sister appear: Beth. The
strategy is the same. Once she's gone, climb the staircase and enter the next
room. Hop across to the next door and enter to find a non-twisted corridor with
Green Bubbles. Shoot them, then enter the locked door at the end. Hop onto one
of the revolving pillars and aim your bow at the eye switch. What? It's frozen
in ice? Well, why do you think there's a torch in the middle of the room, hmmm?
Once the torch is between you and the switch, fire an arrow through the torch
to melt the ice and twist the corridor. Enter and continue, then hop down
through the hole in the next room. You'll now be in a long tiled room with a
deadly falling ceiling. To get past it, you'll have to run to safe spots where
there are holes in the ceiling. Two of these are occupied by a Skulltula, the
other two have a switch and a chest. Don't let the ceiling fall on you, and
make sure you hit the switch. On the other side, enter the door.

The third Poe Sister, Amy, is a bit more cunning. She has only one picture, but
to make things hard, she drops a block puzzle from the ceiling. To make things
harder, she gives you a time limit of one minute to put it together before they
reset. To make things even harder still, she throws in a block with a picture
of a quarter of her sister, Beth. Get rid of it if it's in the way and then
focus on getting the four blocks put together. Once the puzzle is solved, kill
her and then exit. You'll be on the unaccessible balcony in the central room,
where the fourth and final Poe Sister, Meg, is waiting. She's harder to kill
than the others, mostly because she creates three copies of herself that aren't
really there. If you shoot them, it won't do any good. The way to find the real
Meg is to see which one twirls around when they first appear. Shoot her and 
only her until she dies o_O. All four poes have now been killed (again) and the
four flames have returned to their torches. The elevator will rise, granting
access to the bottom floor.

Though you possess the Boss Key, the path is still barred by a gate. The wall
in this room, however, has the unique ability to rotate, giving you access to
a couple of side rooms. To rotate it, grab one of the protruding walls and push
it in a counter-clockwise direction once. Enter the door and hit the switch.
Push it counter-clockwise again and enter the other room and hit the switch.
Push it counter-clockwise again and enter the other room and get the Golden
Skulltula token. Push it counter-clockwise one more time to find yet another
switch. Hit it, then cross the room and enter the hall. Unlock the door and
enter....

- EVIL SPIRIT FROM BEYOND: PHANTOM GANON -

This might freak you out at first. It's only the fourth dungeon and you already
have to face Ganon! Actually, this is merely a phantom copy of the real Ganon,
and this thing is much weaker than the real thing. He'll begin by riding his
horse into one of the paintings. Stand in the middle of the room and... what?
He's not there? Try leaving first, heh heh... ka-CHINK! Now he'll be there....
As I was saying, stand in the middle of the room (on the Triforce for good
luck) and take out the bow. Rotate around until you see a horse coming out of
one of the paintings. Don't shoot yet: if the horse turns away, it's a decoy,
and the real thing is about to come out. Quickly find the ganon that glows
brightly and is surrounded by a dark purple cloud. Shoot him right away to make
him return to the painting. Repeat this until he gives up on the horse and
faces you himself. Z-Target him and wait until he shoots a ball of energy at
him. Use the Master Sword to reflect his own attack back at him. REMEMBER THIS
STRATEGY! Keep reflecting it back and forth until he fails to hit it and it
hits him instead. Run over and jump attack him until he recovers, then repeat
until he is banished forever.

- AFTER PHANTOM GANON -

NEW QUEST ITEM: FOREST MEDALLION
NEW SONG: PRELUDE OF LIGHT
NEW EQUIPMENT: GORON TUNIC

It's no big deal, you don't have to do it now, but if you want, return to the
Temple of Time to find Sheik. Talk to him to learn the Prelude of Light. This
song allows you to warp to the Temple of Time whenever you want. Now that Sheik
is no longer standing in front of the Pedestal of Time, you can return to your
younger self by dropping the Master Sword into the Pedestal. This is useful for
getting Pieces of Heart, Skulltulas, and upgrades that can't be gotten as an
adult.

Your next goal is the Fire Temple in the Death Mountain Crater. Before you
enter the crater, though, shouldn't you see how the gorons are doing?... Well,
they aren't doing too good. In fact, they're gone. All but two were taken cap-
tive by Ganondorf and imprisoned in the Fire Temple. One of them is hiding in
the Goron Shop, now locked up, and the other is rolling around on the third
floor of Goron City. This is a bit tricky: to get his attention, you need to
blow up a bomb in his face. What happen? Somebody set up us the bomb!...Sorry.
No more Zero Wing jokes. Anyway, you have to blow up a bomb right as he rolls
by, and it's hard to get the timing right, so be patient and keep trying. Once
he's aware of your presence, go over and talk to him. Listen to everything he
has to say, then accept his gift: the Goron Tunic. Once used by hylian miners
searching for rupees, this tunic keeps you cool in the hot temperatures ahead.
The doors to the Shop and to Darunia's room are now open, and to get to the
Fire Temple, you'll actually have to enter Darunia's Room. The statue at the
back can be pulled out to reveal a secret passage that leads to the lower area
of the crater. However, I also recommend visiting the exterior of the summit
at least once to see the ring of fire surrounding Death Mountain. It's not
that important, but it's quite a sight. Do it before you beat the Fire
Temple....

-*- DEATH MOUNTAIN CRATER -*-

NEW SONG: BOLERO OF FIRE

Use the Hookshot to bypass the broken bridge, then learn the Bolero of Fire
from Sheik, which allows you to warp to the Death Mountain Crater any time you
want. Cross the stone bridge and enter the cave. Climb down the loooong ladder
and enter the doorway.

-*- FIRE TEMPLE -*-

NEW ITEM: MEGATON HAMMER

This whole temple is filled with Fire Keese, so come stocked with as many
arrows as your quiver can hold. The first room has three doors, one sealed, one
locked, and one open. Take the open one on the left at the top of the stairs.
You'll notice the door to the boss room at the other end.... Darunia will be
standing next to it and will talk to you about some stuff. You obviously don't
have the key to the boss room, and you can't even reach it yet. Note that the
lava in this room and in the rest of the temple can be stepped on, but it will
start to hurt after a few seconds, so don't be afraid to run across it quickly.
First, hop across the pillars on the left and make your way over to the plat-
form on the left side of the room. Step on the switch to open the door and free
the first of eight goron prisoners. Each one gives a hint on how to solve some-
thing in the temple, and they also have keys in their room.... Don't ask why, I
don't know why Ganondorf would put keys in their room. It sure would put a stop
to Link's quest if he removed all the keys.... Anyway, return to the first room
and use the key on the locked door.

Ignore the long bridge in this room and turn left. Follow the small path along
the wall, cross the lava if necessary, and climb up to the door. The rocks and
platforms are a bit unstable, so try to avoid them. Enter the door and free the
goron (don't forget the key). When you exit, play the Song of Time to move the
large blue block down from above. Climb on, hop up, and enter the door. At the
other end of the room is a Gold Skulltula and a Like Like, but first you should
raise your shield until the floor tiles calm down a bit. Take the skulltula
token and return to the main room. Return to the bridge and start across it.
Once you reach the middle of the bridge, look up. You should see a wide chimney
that leads up through the ceiling. This leads to two other rooms later in the
temple, so just so you know, if you fall down in one of those rooms, you'll end
up here (as opposed to being sent back to the door of the room). You may even
be able to see the platforms in the room above. Anyway, use the Hookshot to
cross the gap in the bridge. Before entering the next room, take a right and
follow the path along the wall to another platform. Whack the wall with your
sword to find the place to be bombed. Enter to find another goron and a key.
Return to the end of the bridge and enter the next room.

Slide down the board, then climb up the chicken-wire fence on the right side.
Use the Hookshot on the keese just to be safe, then hop down to the right half
of the broken arch. Push the large block off the edge and onto the fire geyser.
Hop onto the block and wait until Old Faithful sends the block up through the
hole in the ceiling. Step off and enter the door. In the next room, climb up to
the ledges with the fire slugs, kill them, then hop over to the ledge with the
block on it. Push it off, then pull it as far as it goes. Hop on, then jump to
the chicken-wire on the wall. Climb up, then drop a bomb on the crystal switch.
Climb up to the flaming chicken-wire fence and wait for the bomb to shut off
the fire. Climb up, hop off, and enter the door.

This room is a maze filled with large, rolling boulders. First, turn right and
follow the path to the trapped goron and another key. Take it, then go to the
other side of the room. Enter the room to find another key. Back in the main
room, another skulltula hides behind a bombable wall. Once you're done, enter
the last remaining locked door. You'll now be in the aforementioned room above
the wooden bridge, so watch your step. First, shoot the eye switch and enter
the now unbarred door to find the dungeon map, then use a key on the other
door. As soon as you step onto the chicken-wire platform, a wall of fire will
erupt behind you. Hurry across the platforms to the other side of the room and
enter the door (not the locked one, save that one for later). You'll now be on
top of the maze. Be careful not to fall down. Hop across to the platform with
the fire slug, kill it, then bomb the cracked floor (ignore Navi as she yells
"Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!") Hop down and free the imprisoned goron, take the
key, and return to the maze room by climbing the chicken-wire wall where you
just fell down. There's another goron to save, though. Hop across the tops of
the walls of the maze to the nearby switch, then make your way over to the
goron in the cell across the room. Once that's done, return to the room with
the lava and chicken-wire platforms and enter the locked door in the middle of
the room (it looks like a tough jump, but you can make it). Follow the hallway
to the next room.

This large room is pretty important. You'll first notice the large block dir-
ectly in front of you. This is part of a large pillar that will eventually fall
down to the room below and give you access to the Boss Room door seen in the
first room. You can even see the room below through the chicken-wire. Anyway,
first take a right to find the compass in a side room. Be careful, this room is
an invisible maze of flames. You can pass through certain poles, but others
will flare up if you get too close. Be careful. Once you have the compass, make
your way through the maze on the left side of the room. There are also a couple
of fake doors around here, just like one of the goron prisoners said. Bomb them
if needed. Enter the openable door and ignore the jailed goron for now. Exit
the room on the other side to find yourself on the other side of the fire maze.
Find the switch, then immediately run to the extinguished wall of flame. It may
take a couple of tries to remember the correct path. You definitely need to
bomb the wonky door here, a real door is hidden behind it. Behind the real door
is the dungeon mini-boss: Flare Dancer. He'll pop out of the flames looking
like a flaming scarecrow. Use the Hookshot or a bomb to extinguish the flames
and reveal that he's only a little fat black devil. Slash him, then run around
the central platform to catch him as he runs away. He'll squeal in terror and
turn around, so jump attack him before his little legs can turn him around.
He'll eventually return to the fire and cackle maniacally, returning a few mo-
ments later in his former fiery glory. Repeat the process until he leaves. Hop
onto the platform and ride it up to the next level. Enter the door, climb the
chicken-wire, Hookshot the crystal switch, then climb the now-extinguished
fence up to the next room.

To do this room, a couple things are required. First, it requires a complete
lack of fire keese. They can knock you off the edge and down to the bridge room
on the first floor. Second, it requires an extremely good balance of speed and
precision. Once the fire keese are gone, you need to hit the switch and run
carefully but quickly up the circular steps that circle around the large hole
leading to the lower floors. The steps are narrow, so take some time to do it
well, but don't take your time because you don't have much time.... Once you
reach the chest, open it to receive the Megaton Hammer! Use it to smash junk!
It works like the Biggoron sword in that you can't use your shield at the same
time, but it functions just like the sword, only you use the C-Buttons for it
and it can't perform a spin attack. Other than that, you can slash left, right,
pound the ground, even do a jump attack. It's used to hit rusty switches and to
knock certain blocks out of the way or to dislodge certain blocks like the face
block near the door you just came in. In fact, go ahead and hit that face block
right now. Ride it down to the next room and use the hammer to knock the blocks
out of the way, then enter the door. Kill all the enemies, but don't go too
hammer-happy. You'll need one of those boxes in the corner. Hit the block near-
by to unlock the staircase, then grab a box and hop down to the blue switch.
Drop the box onto it and enter the door. Whack the block with your hammer and
ride it down to the fire-maze chamber. First, hit the rusty switch with your
hammer. Now's the time to release that jailed goron. Use the Song of Time to
move the blue block, then hop across to the other side and hit the switch to
release him. Take the key, then climb back up the block and return through the
door. Now, stand on the large block and whack it with your hammer. WHEEEEEEE!!!
That was fun, wasn't it? Unfortunately, it's not as over as you may think. You
still can't unlock that door. So... return to the very first room. You'll
notice the blocks to the right of the stairs. Hit them with the hammer to re-
veal another door. Enter and kill all the enemies to proceed. In the next room,
use the shield to protect yourself from the evil spinning floor tiles. Kill the
Like Like and take the Gold Skulltula token.

In the next room, you'll have a rematch with the Flare Dancer. This time, you
have the legendary Megaton Hammer. He seems to last a bit longer, but he's not
any harder. You should also be able to use the hammer to extinguish his flames.
I heard this was mentioned in the official Nintendo Player's Guide, but I
haven't seen it myself, so don't quote me on that. Once the Flare Dancer is
gone for good, take the... bombs in the treasure chest and enter the tunnel.
Release the last goron and take the Boss Key. Now you can enter the room to the
final boss. You should know where it is by now.

- SUBTERRANEAN LAVA DRAGON VOLVAGIA -

When you first enter, hop across to the central platform, the one with an array
of nine holes. The platform behind you will crumble, trapping you inside. Vol-
vagia, a long, snake-like dragon will emerge. As long as he's flying around in
the air, you can't hit him (well, technically I think you can, but it's really
hard). Wait until he burrows into one of the lava holes, then wait for him to
emerge. If he stays there, run over to him and whack him with the Megaton
Hammer. When he collapses, jump attack him with the hammer. Wait for him to fly
around again and repeat until he dies. He'll also fly up and hit the ceiling,
causing boulders to fall on top of you. He may also breath fire at you as he
flies around the room. Also, notice the eruptions of fire that come out of the
holes before he emerges. He often does this several times before emerging in an
effort to trick you into running to a different hole. I thought he popped out
of the holes to attack you, not to give you a fighting chance. Anyway, once
goronian history repeats itself, take the Heart Container.

- AFTER VOLVAGIA -

NEW QUEST ITEM: FIRE MEDALLION
NEW UPGRADE: EXTENDED MAGIC METER

After receiving the Fire Medallion, you'll be returned to the Death Mountain
Crater. You can now use the Megaton Hammer to bash the large boulders around
the crater. It takes a couple hits, though. Use the Hookshot on the broken
bridge, then bust open the sealed cave with the Hammer, enter, and play Zelda's
Lullaby to double the length of your magic meter. Return to the crater and
smash the other boulder. Hop over, climb the ladder, and exit the crater. You
can find your way down the mountain from there.

Your next goal is the Water Temple, but with your current equipment, you can't
even enter it. You should first visit Zora's Domain to see what's going on with
the Zoras. Upon entering it, you'll notice that the whole place is totally
frozen. Even the waterfall is frozen solid. It must have taken some powerful
magic to make a running waterfall freeze like that.... King Zora is frozen too,
but you'll be able to thaw him soon. Take the path behind him to Zora's Fount-
ain. Hop across the ice floes to find a Piece of Heart, then enter the large
cave nearby.

-*- ICE CAVERN -*-

The Ice Cavern is a mini-dungeon, not really a temple with a full-on boss and
a special quest item. It's a cave that contains an important piece of equipment
that you need before you can even enter the Water Temple. There is, however, a
map and a compass, so it is a bit like a dungeon.

Follow the tunnel to the first room. Avoid the razor trap and destroy all the
Freezards to open the door. Follow the tunnel onward. Keep moving in this cave,
because icicles have a tendency to come loose from the ceiling right as you
pass underneath them, but they're a bit slow in falling, so if you hear the
familiar TCH-TCH-TCH sound, move out of the way. The next room is the first
time you'll come across the special silver rupees. These rupees are only worth
about five rupees in this game (they're worth 100 in the sequel...), but you
don't collect them for currency, you collect them to open doors and unlock
puzzles. They'll make a five-note tone each time you collect them, growing in
pitch as you collect more. Once you get all five, a door will open or something
like that will happen. Collect the five silver rupees and avoid the spinning
ice scythe by using the shield to crouch down as it passes over you. One rupee
is behind some ice stalagmites, and one is suspended in air near the door. Once
you collect all five, enter the door up on the ledge and continue through the
tunnel.

First shoot the ice keese, then climb up to the ledge. Kill the freezards and
continue on up the path. When you reach the Goblet of Fire, er, the blue flame,
catch some in a bottle. It helps to have at least three empty bottles for this
place, but it's not required, it just means more work. You'll need these blue
flames to melt the red ice all over the cavern, so stock up on as much as you
can carry. The map is also frozen in red ice, and a purple rupee is in a frozen
chest on a side pillar.

Return to the scythe room and melt the first door on your left if you're inter-
ested in a Piece of Heart and the dungeon compass. It takes some fire to melt
the ice, but there just happens to be another blue flame in there. Once you
have the compass and Piece of Heart, return to the ice scythe room and melt the
red ice blocking the other door. Follow the tunnel onward to the next room.
This is another silver rupee room, but this time, they're out of reach. First,
kill the ice keese, then push the large block forward. It slides on the slick
ice, so be careful with it. If it ever gets somewhere you don't want it to be,
push it into one of the holes in the corner of the room to make it reappear in
its original location. Push it forward, take the silver rupee, then push it to
the right. Use a blue flame to melt the ice and take another silver rupee, then
push the block off the edge to reset it. Now push it left, grab the rupee,
right, grab the rupee, right, grab the rupee, hop across to the blue flame and
stock up, then push it toward the middle of the room, then right toward the
exit. The door should be open by now. If it's not, you missed a silver rupee.
Use the block to reach the door and follow the tunnel to a blockade of red ice
blocks. Drop a flame right in the middle of the three to melt them all, take
whatever is in the pots, then enter the door....

- WHITE WOLFOS -

NEW EQUIPMENT: IRON BOOTS

The White Wolfos fights exactly like the Wolfos. The only difference is that
it's white instead of gray and black and that it's slightly stronger. Stab it
when it raises its arm until it dies. Open the chest to receive the Iron Boots! 
Equip these to sink in water. Once you reach the bottom of the water, you'll be
able to run around under water. You won't be able to use any items except the
Hookshot, though. Not that you'll really need to use anything else, seeing as
how all the enemies underwater can be taken out with the Hookshot.

- AFTER WHITE WOLFOS -

NEW SONG: SERENADE OF WATER

Sheik will show up and teach you the Serenade of Water which will warp you
directly to Lake Hylia. There should be a small hole in the back of the room,
so use your new boots to sink in the water, then follow the tunnel and exit the
cave. If you don't have any more blue flames, grab a couple extra before you
go. Once you're out of the cave, return to Zora's Domain and use one of the
blue flames on King Zora. He'll be so thankful that he'll give you a free Zora
Tunic. Once you put this on, you'll be able to breath underwater whenever you
use the Iron Boots. You can also thaw the shop down below and buy a Zora
Tunic, but it's cheaper to get it from the King (free is always cheaper than
300 rupees).

Now you're ready for the Water Temple! After using the Serenade of Water,
you'll find yourself out on the island in the middle of Lake Hylia. Jump down
into the shallow water and equip both the Iron Boots and the Zora Tunic
if you haven't done so already. Once you reach the bottom, shoot the jewel
above the doorway with the Hookshot to open the gate.

-*- WATER TEMPLE -*-

NEW ITEM: LONGSHOT

This has been called the most difficult temple in the entire game by many
people, and I must admit it took several straight hours of absolutely nothing
to finally find my way through. You have to use Zelda's Lullaby next to icons
of the Triforce to raise and lower the water level in order to reach certain
rooms. By the way, before you enter, make SURE you have AT LEAST one fairy. You
will almost definitely need it, ESPECIALLY if this is the first time you've
ever done this temple. To be safe, take two or three along.

When you first start, you'll be on the top floor (the 3rd floor) and the water
level will be as high as it can go. Your first job is to drain it completely by
sinking down to the bottom of the first room (I'm going to assume that you'll
figure out that you need to put on your boots to sink and remove your boots to
rise and in order to get in or out of deep water respectively). First take the
door on your right (the eastern door) and follow the hallway to find Ruto,
your, ah, fiancée. She'll talk about love and such ("How could you leave me?")
and then leaves you herself.... See, Ruto? That's how I could leave you....
Anyway, she leads you up to a Triforce Logo on the wall of the upper room, so
take off your boots to find it. Play Zelda's Lullaby to drain the water com-
pletely, and return here whenever you need to do so again. Before you leave,
enter the next room to find some enemies. Defeat them, then take the map. Now
hop down the hole.... Waaaaaaaaaah!!!... Uh, shouldn't Link go SPLAT?... Sorry,
I guess that happens in Wind Waker >:-( Anyway, Link falls a good fifty feet
and doesn't get a scratch, so try to ignore it. To get into the next room, you
have to shoot two arrows through the lit torch into the two unlit torches. You
have to move fast, since the first torch you light won't stay lit for long.
Enter the next room to find a key.

Return to the main central room and go to the other side (the western side) and
hop onto the platform. Shove the block until it falls into the water, then fol-
low it in. Continue along until you reach a room with an impassible gap, a lit-
tle geyser, a switch, and a tektite. Shoot the tektite with an arrow to annoy
it enough to make it fall down, then hit the switch. Hop onto the geyser, which
rises up and can magically support your weight, then hop to the other side.
Enter the next room and sink down onto the underwater ledge. Get into a posi-
tion in which you can hit both the crystal switch (in the dragon's mouth) and
the target with your hookshot. Shoot them both in that order, then quickly run
into the end of the passage before the gate comes back down. Rise, take the key
in the chest, then return all the way back out to the central room (use the
Hookshot to bypass the geyser this time). You have one more room to do before
you continue, but it's not all that important: it contains a Gold Skulltula.
Since it'll be more trouble later on, you might as well do it now. Enter the
southern door on the bottom level and use a bomb at the end of the passage.
Follow the underwater passage into the room and use your Hookshot to get up to
the upper level. Kill the tektites, then use a spin-attack by the gate to hit
the catch-22 crystal switch. Enter, take the Gold Skulltula, then return to the
central room.

Next, enter the room in the middle of the tower. Run to the other wall, then
use your Hookshot on the targets to make your way up to another Triforce Logo.
Play Zelda's Lullaby again to raise the water half-way. Here's the sneaky part:
notice that a block floated up right next to you. This block opened up a hidden
passage down below. Position yourself properly so that you don't sink onto the
spikes, then put on your Iron Boots. Follow the passage into a room, then hit
the crystal switch to release a plethora of baddies. Kill them all, then rise
up into the vertical corridor to find a key. Return to the central room and
exit through the door to find yourself back out in the main room.

Next, enter the eastern doorway (to your left after exiting the inner room) if
you want the compass (it's pretty useful). Follow the corridor and use the
Hookshot to reach the upper room. Stand right next to the watery treasure chest
and shoot an arrow at the crystal switch. Immediately open the chest to receive
the compass. Return to the central room and hop back into the water. Sink to
the bottom floor and enter the eastern door (the room where you found Ruto).
Rise up to the surface, then bomb the nearby cracked wall. Enter, take the key,
and return to the central room. Cross to the other side and enter the western
door. Go over to the geyser and wait for the tektite to fall. Kill it, then
step on and shoot the crystal switch to rise to the third floor. Enter the door
to find another Triforce Logo. Use this one to raise the water to its highest
level. Do so, then hop down. Before continuing, cross to the eastern side and
enter the passage way. Sink down, then drag the block as far as it will go. It
will make life a little easier later. Now return and enter the western door.

Kill the keese, then hop down onto the lower platform (the moving one). This is
the Waterfall Room, maybe because it has a waterfall in it... Use your Hookshot
on the smaller platforms to get higher and higher until you can reach the last
target. Enter the next room with your last key. If at this point you have no
key to get in, check your compass for any stray keys (I told you it'd come in
handy). If you're a genius like me, you may have overlooked one of the chests,
like, say, the one behind the cracked wall (go ahead and laugh, but I got into
that room and didn't notice the chest the first time I did this temple). If you
do have enough keys, then I'll continue the walkthrough since you're smart :-)
This next room has an unusual crystal switch in the center. Red means the water
level is low, blue means it's high. Shoot it to raise the water level, then use
the Hookshot to reach the other side. Shoot it again to lower the water level
(the dog heads also sink). Use the Hookshot to reach the other side, then hop
the doggy head and shoot the switch again. Shoot your way over to the final
area, then shoot the switch again to lower the doggy head. Hop on, then shoot
it one last time to get up to the ledge above. Take out the tektites, then use
the Hookshot to reach the Like-Like. Kill it, then prepare yourself for the
next room....

This room appears to go on forever. The glassy water reflects everything, and
the walls seem non-existent. The door on the other side is locked.... Oh well.
Say, what happened to your reflection? Shouldn't it be right under you? You
didn't walk over that island in the middle of the room, did you? You did? Good
for you. Maybe you left your reflection there.... Yep, sure enough, there's
your reflection waiting on the island. Good luck, uh, I have to go over there
now, have fun.... This is probably the hardest part of the whole game for me,
partly because your reflection doesn't really have much of an obvious weakness.
He's basically Link in the hands of the CPU with the AI level turned up really
high. He's quick and nimble, and loves to dodge most of your attacks by back-
flipping. If you try to use your sword, he'll mimic your every move and your
sword will merely bounce off of his. If you try to stab him, he'll hop onto
your sword and either hit you while you're stunned, or he'll hop off and con-
tinue. Nintendo Power's Official Player's Guide says that spin-attacks will be
effective, but leave it to the pros to suggest a strategy that doesn't work. If
it does, it's too hard for a beginner because I've never been able to hit him
with a spin-attack. I use a combination of Megaton Hammering and non-Z-target-
ing sword attacks. You have to be practically hugging him before you can hit
him with your sword or the hammer. Keep at it and he'll eventually fall. To
this day, it has always taken me at least one fairy to beat him, but who knows
what will happen when I try the three-heart challenge....

Okay, now here's the part where I cry. I have received countless e-mails con-
taining alternate strategies for beating Link's Reflection, and because I'm
such a nice guy, I have to give credit to everyone.... Not here, mind you, go
look in the Thanks section. But I'm going to cry because I have to look through
every single e-mail I've ever gotten for OoT and make sure nobody gets left
out. And yes, I do keep all my OoT mail. So... the other two methods for de-
feating Link's Reflection are to use Din's Fire or the Biggoron Sword. I
haven't tried both of them, seeing as how I'd have to play through more than
half the game just to find out. Din's Fire reportedly works really well. 

Anyway, once you beat him, the walls will appear and the door will be unlocked,
so enter the next room to find your prize: The Longshot! This version of the
Hookshot has an extended chain for better distance! Now you gotta get out of
this place. A Block of Time is right behind the chest, so use the Song of Time
to get rid of it. Hop in to find yourself on a ledge. Continue on to the right
through the river with your boots. Be careful to avoid the vortexes. If you do
slide down into one, don't panic: in theory, you shouldn't be sucked in com-
pletely. You should stop right at the edge, giving you the chance to roll up
the slope and continue. Also, don't miss the Gold Skulltula on the wall about
halfway along the river. Once you reach the point where you can't go further,
look up at the ceiling for a target. Latch on and you'll land on a tiny little
ledge. Shoot the eye switch, then immediately latch onto the nearby treasure
chest to get past the gate. Open it to receive a small key, then continue.

Once you reach the central room, drain the water completely, then raise it back
up to half-way. Exit, then go to the other side to find a locked gate. Shoot
the eye-switch, then immediately latch onto the target. Follow the passage to
find the block that you pulled out earlier. Push it out of the way, then take a
right to find a key in a chest. Exit by using the Longshot on the target out in
the corridor, then hop back in and sink down to the lower floor. Enter the
northern passageway and use the Longshot to get past the spikes. Enter the door
to find yourself in the most sadistic room of death in the whole game: six tek-
tites, swift currents, two vortexes, and boulders to boot. If you want to empty
your quiver on the tektites, that's fine with me.... I just ignore them and use
the Iron Boots to reach the other side. In the next room, shoot the Stingers
with the Longshot, then drop down and look for the discolored corner. Bomb it,
then enter and push the crescent block as far as it can go. Exit, then bomb the
other corner, enter, then pull the block as far as it will go. Enter the other
side and push the block into the water and onto the underwater switch. The
water will rise up to where you can reach the next door.

This next room has not one, not two, but three geysers. First, though, shoot
each tektite with a single arrow to make them hop down below, then hit the
switch. If you're confident, you'll only need two of the geysers to reach the
other side. Enter the door to find yourself in a dangerous place: if you mess
up, you'll end up right back in the sadistic room of death. You don't want that
to happen. Wait until a boulder passes by, then hop towards the waterfall and
put on your boots. Follow the passage to find the Boss Key. Yay! You're almost
done. Return to the central room and raise the water level to the very top. Be-
fore you continue, though, return to the Waterfall Room and use the Longshot to
get another Gold Skulltula. Now return to the central room and use the Longshot
to reach the northern door (you can get a couple fairies from the clay pots if
you want them). Yet another sadistic room of death.... Three razor traps guard
the slope leading to the final door. If you stop on the slope, you'll slide
back down. If you hit a razor trap, you'll loose energy and slide back down. Be
very careful. Once you reach the top, enter the door....

- GIANT AQUATIC AMOEBA MORPHA -

At first, you may think you're about to fight a fish. Then the fish rises up
above the water level and the water follows it. At this point, you may realize
that this isn't exactly a fish. It's Morpha, a little eye in an amorphous blob
of water. To fight it, you'll need to use the Longshot to pull the nucleus out
of the water so you can slash it with your sword. It can be pretty hard to hit.
When the nucleus starts swirling around, stay on the move to avoid its attack.
Once the watery tentacle has emerged, latch onto the nucleus with Z-Targeting
and slash away. Generally, it's a good idea to avoid letting Morpha grab you
with its watery tentacle, because it tends to crush you and throw you into the
many spikes that adorn the walls. Also, if you happen to fall into the pool,
climb out onto one of the four islands, then hop back to the main floor. Once
Morpha dries up, take the Heart Container and enter the Chamber of the Sages.

- AFTER MORPHA -

NEW QUEST ITEM: WATER MEDALLION
NEW ITEM: FIRE ARROW

Sheik will observe your victory from the Lake Hylia Island and talk to you a
bit before vanishing once again, without even teaching you a song! It should be
morning by now, and if it isn't, wait until it is. Fire off a single arrow into
the rising sun to make the Fire Arrow appear on the small island. Swim over to
receive it.

At this point, you're kinda given a choice about which temple you want to beat
next. It's your choice. If you want to go in technical order, do the Spirit
Temple next, but if you want to go in the odd order that the game designers in-
tended, do the Shadow Temple next. If you do the Spirit Temple next, you should
probably avoid going to Kakariko Village, since that will start a rather large
cutscene that will make you want to do the Shadow Temple next. I will also warn
you that there's one item you need to get before you do the Spirit Temple (Lens
of Truth) and another found in the Shadow Temple that is slightly useful but
not essential in the completion of the Spirit Temple. Since the odd order makes
more sense, I'll follow it instead (FYI, I like to do the Spirit Temple first
and then the Shadow Temple, but that's not how the game was designed).

Regardless of which temple you're doing next, you need an item before you can
continue. You'll first need to warp (or walk or ride) to the Temple of Time and
return the Master Sword to the Pedestal of Time (assuming, of course, that you
have already learned the Song of Storms from the Windmill Guy in Kakariko).
Now that you're pint-sized again, return to Kakariko (don't worry, this is a
seven-year-younger Kakariko, so you won't see the really cool cutscene yet) and
go to the Windmill. Play the Song of Storms in front of Bob the Crazy Windmill
Guy to crank the Windmill into super-speed. This will suck all the water out of
the Well, opening up a horrifying new path....

-*- UNDER THE WELL -*-

NEW ITEM: LENS OF TRUTH

This place is evil, but it's just a fraction of what you'll see in the Shadow
Temple. You'll need to crawl through a small tunnel to get inside. Take out the
skulltula, then walk through the wall at the end of the room. Yes, I said walk
through it. See? Well, you can't see, at least not yet. You'll need the Lens of
Truth to really see. The Windmill may have drained enough water to get in, but
to completely drain the well, you'll need some Hylian authority. You can either
go left or right, but I recommend left. You'll probably run into the Green Bub-
ble, but losing a quarter of a heart isn't as bad as falling into a hidden hole
and losing a couple minutes. Anyway, once you reach the other side of the
tunnel, you'll see a stone demon spouting out some pretty slow water. Stand on
the Triforce Symbol and play Zelda's Lullaby to completely drain the well.

Now, I should next warn you about this place: there are eight holes in which
you can fall through and land on the lower level, only two of which are in the
outer tunnel. One is underneath the demon on the wall to your right, the other
is in the alcove to your left. If you do happen to fall into any one of these,
you should take the opportunity to get the map, which happens to be in the
southern-most tunnel on the lowest level (beyond some boulders). To get back up
to the first floor, you'll need to collect five silver rupees, three of which
are on the wooden slats in the pond of green acid. The other two are up the
ladder, which also leads to the door. Even then, you may think that you're
trapped. However, if you listen carefully, you'll be able to hear the sounds of
the main tunnel. To the left of the door is a fake wall, and on the other side
is the main tunnel.

Go straight ahead from there and you'll find yourself back at the beginning of
the well, but this time, the little pond has been drained, revealing a small
tunnel. Crawl through it, kill the Skulltula, then continue into the next room.
Here you'll have to fight the Dead Hand mini-boss. Let one of the hands grab
you to begin the battle. The actual monster himself will come out of the dirt
and walk towards you slowly. Once you break free of the hand, do quick spin at-
tacks (if you know how) or just avoid the hands and attack the head. Continue
this strategy (don't follow the head once he turns around and burrows back un-
derground) until he, uh... dies?

Pop open the chest to receive the Lens of Truth! By activating this, you'll be
able to see what's real and what's merely an illusion. Try it out behind the
chest to find another smaller treasure chest.... Pop that baby open to get a
whopping 200 rupees! Now, you may think that you've completed this place, what
with killing the boss and getting the item and all, but if you're going for
skulltulas, you've still got some work to do. Plus, now that you have the Lens
of Truth, this whole place will be twice as easy. Return to the main tunnel and
use the Lens of Truth on the wall to the left of the alcove in front of you.
You'll find a chest with a key! Woo hoo! Go around the corner and use it again.
Continue using it to avoid the hole. Woo hoo, the compass! Now exit and run to
the other side of the tunnel and use it again. Woo hoo, another key! Use it a
little further down the tunnel to find a big room in the center (be careful,
there's a hole under the, ah, um,... well, there's a hole in the middle of the
room). Use your two keys on the two doors to find two skulltulas (use the Lens
in the room on the right to see how to get to it). Now exit the center room on
the other side to find a little passageway directly in front of you. Follow it
to the room full of coffins. Next to each coffin is a torch, and when you light
a torch, the adjacent coffin will open to reveal its horrifying contents....
The far left coffin holds a key, so use a deku stick to light the torch. A pair
of Keese will also be released, so shoot them before they catch fire. Hop in,
grab the key, then return to the main tunnel.

Go left, then right and continue to the small tunnel (be careful, there's a pit
beneath the demon on the wall, use the lens to see it). Crawl through, then use
the key to get in. You'll be leaving the Lens activated while in this room at
all times, since half the floor is false. Shoot the keese, bomb the Beamos,
then carefully cross the room to the door. Kill the Like Like, then snag the
Skulltula. Woo hoo! You're done! Time to get outta this little hell hole.

- AFTER THE WELL -

NEW SONG: NOCTURNE OF SHADOW

Upon entering Kakariko Village after beating the Water Temple, you'll see one
of the greatest, if not the best cutscene in the entire Zelda series. I won't
spoil it for you, but it's cool. Sheik will then teach you the Nocturne of Sha-
dow, the song that will warp you to the entrance of the Shadow Temple, which
is located on the ledge behind the Graveyard. After following the stairs down
into the cave, you'll be right in the middle of sixteen empty torches. No mat-
ter how many fire arrows you fire, you'll never get them all lit. Hop onto the
platform in the center of the room and use Din's Fire....

-*- SHADOW TEMPLE -*-

NEW ITEM: HOVER BOOTS

This place is basically Under the Well times five. Many of the puzzles and
enemies are the same, but there are still many new surprises. You'll obviously
be using the Lens of Truth for a great deal of it, since most of the puzzles
require it. This temple also likes to trick you with chests that merely contain
five rupees or some arrows. The keys and such are often in invisible chests.
This place may seem like the most sadistic Zelda temple ever, and I agree. How-
ever, it certainly isn't the most difficult temple. Some of the temples in the
old-school NES games were way harder.

Use the Longshot to cross the chasm, then use the Lens of Truth on the wall you
just came out of to find a hidden passage. Follow it into a square hallway and
take the right fork. Use the Lens of Truth to find another passage off to the
right. Kill the enemies inside to get the map, then return and take another
right, using the Lens to see. Take the right fork and walk straight into the
far wall to find the door.

Time for a little rematch with the Dead Hand. This time, however, he has six
hands instead of four. Kill him like you killed him before (o_O) and he'll
finally die for the third time (O_o). Open the chest to receive the Hover
Boots! No, Stop N Swop, these don't let you fly. All these boots do is give
you an extra foot or two of air time when you hop off of a ledge. This may not
seem like much, but they're essential for getting through this temple. Some-
times, all you need is that extra foot. Return to the first room (with the bird
and the skulls on posts). Use the Lens of Truth to see which of the skulls is
the real skull, then push the bird statue around until its beak points to the
real skull. Don't stop in between or else the floor beneath you will split open
and you'll plunge into deep darkness. Once the door is unlocked, put on the
Hover Boots and float on over to the door (you'll barely make it, giving you a
good measure of how strong... er, how weak those boots are).

Follow the tunnel down to the Beamos. Kill it if you want to, then walk through
the wall on the right (you'll see where, you don't really need the Lens this
time). Enter and kill everything to receive the Compass (which will definitely
help in this temple by showing where all the chests are). Return to the Beamos
room and enter the door on the other side. This room is rather sadistic but
easy, much like the rest of the temple. Two Grim Reapers with huge scythes are
spinning around ready to decapitate you, though they don't do much damage (they
must be trying to turn you into Nearly Headless Link... sorry, I promise, no
more Harry Potter jokes). Use your shield to duck under the scythes whenever
they pass by. Collect all five silver rupees to unlock the door to the key (get
used to collecting silver rupees, there are a grand total of three silver rupee
puzzles in this temple). Once you have the key, ignore the other hallway lead-
ing to a view of the ship you'll be using later on.

Return to the central room and use a bomb on the final doorway. Use the key and
enter the hallway leading to the lower floor. Use the Longshot on any skull-
tulas that happen to drop down. Once you reach the guillotines, use your Long-
shot again to latch onto the wooden post of the far one to bypass the first one
without any decapitation involved. However, for the second one, you'll have to
simply run under it when it rises. Once Navi mentions enemies that hang from
above, dodge the Floormaster and kill it. One less thing to worry about. The
next three guillotines are all timed differently, so learn the pattern before
running through. Once you reach the far platform, a Stalfos will challenge you.
You can kill it if you want. Now, if you want all the Skulltulas, take a left
along the hidden platforms. Enter the door and turn on the Lens to see some
more scythes. Kill all the Keese hanging out on the walls to unlock the door.
Enter to find a Gold Skulltula and two chests, which only contain 5 rupees and
some arrows. Return to the main central room and hop onto the rising platform
past the Stalfos. Wait until it rises, then hop off onto the area with the two
razor traps and the Beamos. Bomb the Beamos to find a hidden Silver Rupee, then
collect the other four. Enter the now unlocked door and follow the passage.

Yet another sadistic room of death. This dungeon does seem to be full of them.
This one has two rising and falling spiked platforms. The only way to get past
them without getting squashed and stabbed and poked and punctured is to pull
the large crescent block out of the wall on your right (use the Lens of Truth
to see where it is). Push it until it's underneath both of the spike squares,
then squeeze past it and pull it until it stops. Now step up onto the area of
ground that's about two inches higher and hop up onto the block. From there,
you can reach the upper ledges. Hit the yellow switch on the right side to make
the chest with the key appear.

Woah! Almost forgot! There's a Gold Skulltula in one of the side rooms, so use
the block to get past the spikes.

Now return to the central room. Walk across the narrow ledge to the Guillotine.
Over on the left side of the far wall is a door. How do you get there, you ask?
*ahemusethelensoftruthcough* The first hidden platform is stationary, just
beyond the guillotine, but the second one moves back and forth along a chain.
Hop onto it, ride to the left, then hop off to reach the next room. Yet another
Silver Rupee puzzle, but don't worry, this is the last one (in this temple, at
least). Use the Longshot to pull yourself through each of them (one of them is
out in the open, so you'll have to use the target in the corner, so make sure
you position yourself so that the rupee is between you and the target). Once
you have all five, the door on the left will open. Enter, shoot down the keese,
then climb the stairs. How convenient and obviously easy, a bomb flower sits
nearby. What luck, that giant skull just happens to explode when you throw a
bomb into it. What idiot decided to hide a key inside a flaming skull that
blows up when a bomb flower sits just ten feet away?...

Return to the other room (oh yeah, I forgot to mention, this room is full of
hidden spikes!). Use the Lens of Truth to find a hidden target directly above
the ledge. Pull yourself up there and enter the door. To get past the giant
fans, sign your autograph for each one.... What? Oh, those fans, heh, put on
the Iron Boots. To get past the gap in the floor, simply ignore it and go into
a cheaper clothing store... Okay, sorry, that was really bad. Use the Longshot
on the wooden slat up on the ceiling. Leave the boots on (use your shield to
block the fire from the silver eye), then use the Lens of Truth to see where
the passage is over on the left (the room beyond has nothing of value, it only
has a clue about how to find the hidden passage). Place yourself between the
passage and the third fan, then put on your Hover Boots. Wait until the fan
blows, then walk over to the hidden passage. The extra wind will give you a
huge boost over the gap. The next room has a couple Gibdo, so kill them from
behind as usual. The chest out in the open has only a couple rupees, and the
door is locked.... Oh no, what will you do? You'll bomb that pile of junk over
in the corner and use the Lens of Truth to find a hidden chest :-)

This next room is quite possibly the largest single room in any Zelda dungeon.
Pull out the crescent block, then push it over to the ladder. Climb up, then
play the Scarecrow Song to reach a ledge with some hearts and a Skulltula. Hop
back down and climb back up to the ship. It's not moving, gee, maybe playing
Zelda's Lullaby while standing on the Triforce symbol will work. Once the ship
starts moving, two Stalfos will drop down separately to keep you occupied while
the ship sails on. Once the ship stops, immediately hop off before it sinks.
First, you need to get the boss key, so head over to the door on the right. You
definitely need the Lens of Truth to get through this room. It looks like it
merely has nine pillars, but there are hidden walls all over the place. The
door on the right leads to the Trash Compactor on the Detention Level (sorry,
no more Star Wars jokes :) Din's Fire will turn the spikes into ash and sets
the ReDead on fire. Take the Boss Key, then return to the pillar room and take
the door on the right again to find a Gold Skulltula. If you want some rupees,
bomb the three flaming skulls again. Exit and take the other right door to find
a hidden Wallmaster. Kill it and take the small key. Now return to the ship
room. To cross over to the other side, simply hop into the hole. You'll die.
And you'll be on the... other... side.... Wow, terrible joke.... Heh, sorry....
Fire an arrow over to the group of bomb flowers to topple the pillar, turning
it into a bridge. Cross over to the other side and enter the door (if you need
hearts, use the Scarecrow Song by the ledges). To get to the Boss Door, use a
combination of the Lens of Truth and the Hover Boots to see the hidden
platforms. Enter the door and hop into the hole....

- PHANTOM SHADOW BEAST BONGO BONGO -

Bongo Bongo is probably one of the most innovative Zelda bosses. His main body
is invisible and can only be seen with the Lens of Truth. He uses his hands to
drum the giant drum that you're standing on and to slap you around. His weak
point, not surprisingly, is his eye. Most of the time, it's shut tight. To open
it, shoot both hands with an arrow, then fire a single arrow into the eye. This
brings the body down so that you can reach it. Run over and jump attack it un-
til it recovers. Continue this strategy, gathering extra arrows and magic bot-
tles, until Bongo Bongo melts into a puddle of evilness.

- AFTER BONGO BONGO -

NEW QUEST ITEM: SHADOW MEDALLION

Well, there isn't much that you have to do before the next temple that isn't
covered in its own section (there's another mini-dungeon), so there's not much
to cover here. I guess I should just remind you that, since there's only one
more temple to go, you should probably gather as many Pieces of Heart as pos-
sible, just so that all that work of finding them all is actually worth some-
thing. You also pretty much have all the items you'll need to explore. See the
Piece of Heart section to find out where they all are.

-*- GERUDO DESERT -*-

- GERUDO VALLEY -

This area doesn't have much. It has two pieces of heart (one in the box on the
ledge in the canyon and one behind the waterfall at the top of a ladder), some
octoroks, and the Carpenter's Tent on the other side. Speaking of the other
side, you can either use Epona to jump the gap (get up lots of speed first) or
use the Longshot on the fragments of the bridge (aim high). Talk to the Lead
Carpenter to find out where the other carpenters went. Also, the running man is
sitting inside the tent, all alone. He can't really go anywhere since the
bridge is broken. Looks like you'll have to see about rescuing those carpen-
ters.

- GERUDO FORTRESS -

This place is a lot of fun if you never get caught. It's a challenge, but it's
a fun challenge. It's no big deal if you get caught. If any of the gerudos see
you, they'll immediately catch you and throw you into the only remaining prison
cell, which happens to have a gap at the top with some wood above it. Maybe the
gerudos should've taken your Longshot before tossing you in. Anyway, to get in
without getting caught, go past the stairs and go a little ways towards the
path leading up to the fortress. Point your Longshot at the flag and shoot the
flagpole. From there, shoot the closest gerudo guard with an arrow to knock her
out for a few minutes. Hop down and enter the door on the left.

This first room is easy: there's no effort involved in finding the carpenter.
Simply talk to Ichiro over in the jail cell and a gerudo warrior will appear.
She's pretty tough, mostly because she uses both of her scimitars to block most
of your attacks. Keep your shield up, because she does attack, and if you get
hit too much, she'll capture you and throw you in prison. She lets her guard
down before and after her attacks, so that's the time to stab her. You can also
just try stabbing every few seconds, just don't stab her so much that she never
gets up. Also, if you do stab her and there's enough space to the side of her,
there's a chance that you can use Z-Targeting to step around to her side and
hit her while she's recovering. Also, if she crouches down and prepares for a
spinning attack, do NOT attack her. If your shield is down when she spins into
you, she'll knock you down and catch you. Anyway, after a while, she'll give up
and escape, leaving behind a key. Take it and set poor Ichiro free. Now he can
go back to making home runs, er, I mean, making bridges.

From there, go through the next door to find yourself at what is probably the
main entrance. The guards are out in front of the fortress and this area is
somewhat protected from their view by boxes, plus they can't see very far, so
you're safe within the boxes. Enter the door to Link's left. Go to the left un-
til you reach a box. Stand behind it and either wait for the guard at the end
of the hall to leave, or shoot her with an arrow. Enter the ramp on the right.
You'll now be up one level and back outside. To Link's left is a raised level
and a guard. Shoot her and enter the door on the left. Fight the gerudo guard
to set Jiro the Carpenter free. Enter the next passage. Now, directly in front
of Link is a vine-covered wall, and beyond that is another door. Hop down and
enter the door. This time, make sure you exit back out the same door after set-
ting Sabooru free (it's the door with two torches on either side of it). Return
to the vined wall, climb up, and enter the door on Link's left. You'll now be
in the kitchen. You can either shoot the two guards (be careful of the one in
the hallway to the right) or just simply shoot your Longshot at the beam on the
ceiling at the far end just above the far platform. Follow the passage back
outside, turn right, and hop down into the door on the right. Enter, but be
careful: a guard will come from the right. It's safest to shoot her as soon as
she's in sight. Walk past her to the right and then left to find Shiro, the
last carpenter. After setting him free, a couple things will happen: he'll re-
turn to the tent and will work with the other carpenters to rebuild the bridge.
Second, a gerudo will appear and give you a membership card so that you can go
anywhere in the fortress without getting caught (she approves of your skills as
a thief). Thirdly, you'll be allowed to get into the Gerudo Training Ground,
the Horseback Archery Range, and the Haunted Wasteland. If you want a "cool"
new arrow, you'll want to complete the Gerudo Training Ground first, though it
isn't important to your quest.

- GERUDO TRAINING GROUND -

NEW ITEM: ICE ARROW

It doesn't really matter which direction you go as long as its left or right.
I'll go left for this walkthrough, since it makes a bit more sense to go left.
The first room has two stalfos and a timer. You have to defeat both of them be-
fore the timer runs out. Take the key in the chest and continue to the next
room. Here you have to collect five silver rupees in a given amount of time.
The first two are in the corridor to your left. Be sure you dodge the giant
boulders that roll down the corridor. Now use the Longshot to reach the upper
area in the center. You can get both of the next two silver rupees with one
Longshot blast if you line it up perfectly. The fifth rupee is at the end of
the corridor on the right (to the right of the entrance, not Link). Once you
have all the rupees, use the Longshot to reach the door (it's blocked off by
flames). The next room doesn't have any key either, just two Wolfos and two
White Wolfos. Kill them to get them out of the way, then use the Lens of Truth
to see where the door is on the right wall. It's up high, so you'll have to
use the Longshot.

A key is locked in the room to the right, but you may not need it. For now,
just hop down and shoot the four eyes on the statue in the middle of the room
(with normal arrows), then hop onto the center platform and take the key in the
chest. Enter the next room and kill the enemies to get them out of the way,
then use the Megaton Hammer to knock away the totems around the room. There's
an eye switch and a button, one of which unlocks the door and the other exting-
uishes the flames around the key in the chest. Now enter the next room. You'll
have to hop around on the pillars above the lava to get five more silver
rupees. If you fall in the lava, the puzzle will reset. If you can't reach a
certain pillar, try using the Hover Boots. To reach the one behind the flames,
play the Song of Time to make some blue blocks appear, hit the yellow switch,
then use the Hover Boots to reach the blue blocks, then hop over to the now
extinguished silver rupee. This unlocks the door on the other side of the room.
Before you go in, hop back up the blue blocks and enter the hallway to find
another key. Turn around and go back through the now unlocked door on the other
side of the lava room. Use the Song of Time to make the blue blocks in the
middle of the room disappear, then put on your Zora Tunic and Iron Boots and
hop in. After taking care of the enemies, use the Longshot to reach most of the
unreachable rupees. For the last one, take off your boots and float around at
the top, about halfway between the wall and the hole leading back up. Once you
have all of them, rise back up and take the key. Return to the lava room and
take the door on your left.

This last room is just like the first room: you have a limited amount of time
to defeat all the enemies. First bomb the Beamos and try to get one of the
Dinolfos in the bomb blast to do extra damage, then take them out individually
with your sword. Take the key and enter the next door to find yourself back in
the very first room. Enter the central door to find a maze full of locked
doors and wire fences. Do not enter the door on the right, it's a waste of a
key. You should have just enough now. Enter the door on the left, then look up
at the ceiling to see a hole. Climb up the fence to find another key. Hop back
down and now follow the locked doors to the central chamber and the Ice Arrow.
If you happen to run out of keys, there's that one I mentioned beyond the
locked door in the room with the four-eyed statue. It should have been un-
locked. If all else fails, come back with the silver gauntlets and use them to
get past the silver block in the Wolfos Room. Anyway, once you have the Ice
Arrow, exit the Training Ground and head for the desert.

- HAUNTED WASTELAND -

To get past the gate, climb up the ladder and talk to the Gerudo guard at the
top. She'll open the gate and give you some instructions. Mine are better. Be-
fore you enter the wasteland, put on your Hover Boots so that you don't sink
into the sand (this isn't required, but it helps just a little). The first ob-
stacle is obvious: a river of quick-sand. Use your Longshot on one of the boxes
on the other side to get past it, then follow the trail of ripped flags. Off to
the side is the Carpet Salesman, whom you will need the Hover Boots to reach,
obviously, since his magic carpet his hovering out in space. He sells bombchus.
As you continue onward, you'll eventually reach a stone shelter. Down inside is
a Golden Skulltula if you care. Climb up the circular ramp, then use the Lens
of Truth to find the Poe Guide. I find it best not to Z-Target him and just
follow his path, using the Lens of Truth to see him. If you happen to stray too
far from the path, you'll be sent back to the entrance to the desert. Once you
reach the other side, you'll find yourself in the Desert Colossus.

- DESERT COLOSSUS -

NEW ITEM: NAYRU'S LOVE
NEW SONG: REQUIEM OF SPIRIT

Leevers are everywhere in this part of the desert, and a few Guay are flying
around. You'll also find the third magical spell behind a cracked wall on the
right: Nayru's Love. This spell protects you from all harm for a limited amount
of time. There's not much else here, except an oasis that gives some fairies
when you play the Song of Storms. Enter the Spirit Temple to find that both
paths are blocked, but notice the small tunnel on the left. It's too big for an
adult like you to fit.... But how can you get back here as a child when the
Gerudos won't even let you into the fortress, let alone the desert? Aha, the
answer is waiting just outside: Sheik appears on the steps of the temple to
teach you the Requiem of Spirit which will warp you to the Triforce logo just
a few yards away over to the left. Looks like it's time to return the Master
Sword to the Pedestal of Time.

-*- SPIRIT TEMPLE -*-

- YOUNG LINK -

NEW UPGRADE: SILVER GAUNTLETS

Play the Requiem of Spirit once you're back to being a kid, then enter the
Spirit Temple. The small hole is up the stairs and to the left. But wait...who
is that? A gerudo is blocking the hole! When you talk to her, she'll ask you
what you're doing here. You can say "Seeing the temple", "Looking for the
sages", and "Nothing, really." Select the third option (trust me). She'll then
give you a mission: find the Silver Gauntlets. Unfortunately, she tells you
to give them to her, so.... Anyway, crawl through the hole to continue (make
sure you have at least one fairy, you may need it).

Shoot down the Keese with your slingshot, then hit the Armos statue. Bomb it to
unlock the doors. Enter the one on the left. Fight the Stalfos until he either
dies or falls off the edge, then throw your boomerang just to the left of the
metal wire bridge on the other side until it hits the crystal switch. Once the
bridge falls, cross it and enter the next room. Use Din's Fire to kill the Anu-
bis, then ignore the crystal switch (it activates fire around the door). An
alternate strategy is to activate the fire and lure Anubis into it. Anyway, en-
ter the door and kill as many keese as you can (beware, if you're using the
Deku Shield, they can burn it up if they touch it). Once they're taken care of,
gather all five silver rupees to drop part of the fence to make a bridge. Cross
it, kill all the keese, then light the torches with a deku stick or Din's Fire.
Open the chest to receive a key, then exit through the other door to return to
the first room. Crawl through the other small hole and enter the door. Climb up
the rough wall (after killing the Skulltulas), then grab the golden skulltula
once you reach the top. Kill the Lizalfos to get them out of the way, then Z-
Target the loose boulder in the rock wall and set a bombchu at it (if you need
some more bombchu, there's a chest nearby). Once the light shines on the sun-
face, the door will open.

This next room is the central room of the whole temple, but you won't be able
to do much in it until later. For now, shove the dormant armos statue off the
edge and onto the block to unlock the door, then climb up the stairs. Enter the
door and follow the stairs up to the next room. This room has a total of three
puzzles crammed into it, so you'll be in here for a few minutes. It also has
several Beamos which will probably make you hate it even more. First, to open
the door, drag the block with the sun-face on it into the sunlight. That was
easy, wasn't it? Try going through the door, you won't get very far. Like I
said, this room has three puzzles. Next, collect all five silver rupees to
light the torch on fire, then light a deku stick on fire and set the other
torches on fire to make a chest appear. Hop up to it and take the key inside.
Now you can go onward up the stairs. Before you go, though, you may want to
grab that Gold Skulltula above the door. You also should make sure that you
have at least one fairy in a bottle, especially if this is your first time
through the game. You're about to face the Iron Knuckle.

This next room has only one enemy, but he's without a doubt the toughest single
non-boss enemy in the entire game. That's why he's so much fun to fight :-) To
start the battle, whack him to wake him up, whack him again for good measure,
then run the heck away before he hits you with that big ol' battle axe. This is
where all those Z-Targeting dodge moves really do come in handy. The easiest
strategy is to get right in front of him so he tries to split you down the mid-
dle. Right before he attacks, jump to the side and then jump attack him while
he recovers his axe. You should notice that his main weakness is speed. If he
tries to chop your head off, however, you'll want to back flip to get out of
the way. Use whatever chances you have to hit him, stabbing and slicing when
you can. Just make sure that you don't get hit by the axe, it takes four hearts
per hit. If you start to run low, hide behind a pillar and wait for the Iron
Knuckle to smash it to pieces, releasing a trio of hearts. Eventually, some of
his armor will fall off, making him a bit faster and a bit angrier. Keep it up
until he dies, then enter the door behind his throne (or behind where it used
to be before he smashed it into gravel). You'll find yourself on the right hand
of the giant goddess statue outside the temple. Kaepora Gaebora will show up
and say a few words. After he's done, open up the chest to receive the Silver
Gauntlets. Why don't you keep those for a little while....

- ADULT LINK -

NEW EQUIPMENT: MIRROR SHIELD

After returning to the Temple of Time and to your older age, return to the
Spirit Temple. You'll notice that you are already wearing those Silver Gaunt-
lets. With them, you'll be able to push the large grey crescent blocks. Climb
the stairs and push the block on the right out of the way. After it falls into
a hole and becomes the floor, you'll gain access to the second half of the
temple. The first room has a Beamos, a Razor Trap, and a crystal switch on the
ceiling. Shoot it, then enter the door on the left to find the compass (kill
the Wolfos, then play Zelda's Lullaby on the Triforce Logo). In the other room,
you'll find a silver rupee puzzle. The first one can be tricky if you don't
have the Hover Boots (hint, hint). You'll need put away your sword, then jump
off the ledge towards it and hit the B Button as soon as you start falling down
to do a jump attack and gain a few precious feet of air. Other than that, the
other four are simply a matter of avoiding the boulders and getting rid of the
blue blocks using the Song of Time. One of the alcoves even has a Golden Skull-
tulla. Once the door opens, enter the next chamber to find a key and a Like-
Like. Take the key and return to the first room and use it to unlock the door.
Yet another Like-Like.... Climb the rough wall at the end of the hallway to
reach the second floor. Use the Lens of Truth to see a Wallmaster. Kill it,
then rotate the mirror clockwise (grab one of the handles). There are four sun-
faces around the room, each revealing good and bad prizes: a heart, a block of
ice, unlocking the door, and a Floormaster respectively. Feel free to stop once
you've opened the door.

The door leads back to the large central room with the goddess statue that you
saw as a kid. Climb the stairs and jump out onto the left hand of the goddess
using either the Hover Boots or the aforementioned technique of jump-attacking
in the middle of your jump. Play Zelda's Lullaby to make a chest appear on the
right hand. Use the Longshot to reach it, then open it to get a small key. If
you want to see something interesting, walk out onto her arm. A Psycho Pot will
awaken far below, but since you're so high up, it rises up until it's high
enough, then attacks. Wierd.... Climb back up to the top where you jumped off
and use the Longshot to reach a small chest on the far ledge. Use the Megaton
Hammer on the rusted switch to unlock the main door. This part is actually op-
tional, but I recommend it if you plan on leaving the temple or quitting any
time soon. Enter the main central door and push the grey crescent blocks out of
the way. Hit the rusted switch to activate an elevator down to the very first
room. Not really useful at the moment, but it helps if you plan on coming back
later on. Also, directly in front of the goddess in the central room is the
chest containing the map, but you have to light the two torches to reveal it.
Anyway, return back up to the upper platform in the central room and unlock the
door.

Climb the stairs and enter the next room to find three Anubis and a Beamos. The
tough way to beat the Anubis is to use the Song of Time to reveal some useful
blue blocks, then hit the switch to activate some fire and lure the Anubis into
the center of the room. The easy way is to just use Din's Fire or some Fire
Arrows. Either way works. Once all the enemies are killed, enter the next door.
This is rather tough: there are four Armos statues and one switch. You have to
awaken the statues and wait by the door on the right until one of them jumps on
the switch. Go through the door IMMEDIATELY, before the Armos jumps off of it.
There are two hidden chests in the middle landing of this staircase, each con-
taining a heart. You'll need it: another Iron Knuckle waits in the room beyond.

This Iron Knuckle will likely last half as long as the first one, since you're
both more experienced as a player and stronger as a character, since you have
the Master Sword. The technique is exactly the same, though. Once this one is
gone, exit the temple through the door beyond to find the Mirror Shield. This
puppy can deflect Beamos' beams, shine light on sunfaces, and kill witches,
among other things.... Return to the Armos room and test out your new shield by
standing in the sunlight and shining the light onto the sunface using R and the
control stick. In the chamber beyond is a small key, so take it back to the
Anubis room and enter the next room. Kill both Beamos, then shoot down the
Skulltula up on the rough wall. There are two ways to do this, one of them
being to cheat and use the Longshot to reach the top of the rough wall. The
other method is to climb this vertical gauntlet of death. Each segment of wall
moves back and forth, and on either side is a row of spikes. If you happen to
be moving from one segment to the next when the two segments shift, you'll be
knocked down to the bottom. If you're really having trouble, use the Longshot.

In the hall beyond, play Zelda's Lullaby on the Triforce Logo (this is almost
as pathetic as Oracle of Seasons...). Kill the flaming slugs, then bomb the
fake door to the left of the flaming chest to find an eye switch. Shoot it,
then use the Longshot to reach the ice blocks above. Hit the switch to exting-
uish the fire, then open the chest to find the Boss Key. Now exit and follow
the hall to the right. This room has several Psycho Pots. Hit the crystal
switch through the bars, then enter the door. If you're out of bombs, shine the
light onto the sunface above the doorway. The next room has a trio of White
Bubbles flying spastically around the room. Kill them, then bomb the wall on
the left. Turn the mirror until it's shining into the room beyond, then enter
the next room and turn the mirror so that it's shining through the bars and
into the first room. Return through all these rooms to the first room and hop
down under the diagonal mirror. Shine the light onto the nearby sunface to
lower the platform that you're standing on. It'll put you right in the middle
of the main central room with the goddess. Shine the light directly on the
face of the goddess to reveal that it's more like a cobra with a door in its
mouth. Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets comes to mind.... Anyway, use
the Longshot on the door, which opens automatically as soon as you land.
Continue on through the door to find the two witches seen earlier. They'll send
yet another Iron Knuckle at you, so destroy it and, well, you'll see what
happens. Follow the hall beyond to the main boss chamber.

- SORCERESS SISTERS TWINROVA -

This is one of the more innovative battles of the whole game. The first stage
is rather difficult, since some of it is out of your control. The two witches
fly around the room, and eventually one of them stops and sends a large blast
of either ice or fire at you, depending on the witch. Here's where the luck
comes in: you have to reflect the blast off of your shield at the other witch,
since fire beats ice and ice beats fire. The problem is that the other witch
isn't always stupid enough to fly right into the blast. Fortunately, though,
she sometimes is, and will often fly next to her sister, which works perfectly:
Z-Target her and raise your shield. You may have to move around a bit, since
the blast has to hit her full-on, and not just her broomstick or something.
Make SURE you never get hit in the side or the back with one of the blasts. The
ice blast can freeze you in place for a good five seconds until it thaws. Once
you hit them enough, they'll combine to form Twinrova, a larger witch with both
elements combined. This time, either element will stun her, but it's a bit
harder to reflect the elements. Each time you get hit in the shield with an
element, your shield will absorb a bit of that element and store it. You have
to get hit with three consecutive blasts of the same element before the shield
overloads and releases a blast of the element back at Twinrova. Once it hits
her, she'll collapse onto one of the four pillars. Jump over and jump attack
her and slash her until she gets up. It gets a bit harder after the first cou-
ple of hits, since she eventually starts to alternate the elements. You'll have
to dodge the other element blasts in order to fully charge up your shield,
otherwise it'll just absorb fire, ice, fire, ice, fire, etc. and never reflect
them back. Also, be careful when you dodge the element blasts, since they tend
to spread out when they hit the floor. Even if you dodge the full blast, you
can still feel the effects if you're too close to the impact zone. Once the
two sisters die and, er, go to heaven for some reason, take the Heart Container
and step into the blue light.

- AFTER TWINROVA -

NEW QUEST ITEM: SPIRIT MEDALLION

Once in the Chamber of Sages, you'll receive the Spirit Medallion! Woo hoo!!!
Assuming you did them in the stupid order that they were designed to be done
in, you're now finished with the main temples. Only one more remains.... But
first, you may want to collect any remaining Pieces of Heart, bottles, Golden
Skulltulas, etc. that you may have missed. Once you're done, return to the
Temple of Time to meet someone.... Mind you, if you don't want to see it yet,
be careful: if you save, you'll see the cutscene as soon as you start playing
again. You can save inside a temple or inside your house to avoid this.

-*- STORY: PART III -*-

-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-
*-*-* MAJOR SPOILER *-*-*
-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-*-

NEW ITEM: LIGHT ARROW

   After receiving the final medallion, a telepathic message from Rauru told
Link that someone was waiting for him at the Temple of Time. Link instantly
warped there with the Prelude of Light, and waiting for him there was Sheik.
Could there be another temple? Link didn't think he could remember another
song. But Sheik had something else in mind. Finally, he would reveal that he
wasn't a he at all... he was Princess Zelda, magically disguised as a Sheikah.
The disguise had fooled Ganondorf and kept her safe for seven years, waiting
until Link would return. Zelda explained to Link about how seven years ago, the
Triforce had split into three pieces as soon as Ganondorf touched it. He kept
the Triforce of Power, which he desired most, but the other two pieces had gone
to two other people. The Triforce of Wisdom had gone to Zelda, and the Triforce
of Courage had gone to Link himself. The Triforce of Power had to be recovered
to stop Ganondorf's evil reign, and only the Light Arrow could pierce his black
heart.
   But alas, Zelda's wisdom had failed to stop her from revealing herself, and
all too soon, the ground shook, dust from the ceiling of the temple fell, and
Ganondorf sealed Zelda in a solid block of crystal. Link's efforts to save her
were in vain. Zelda was taken away to Ganondorf's Tower.
   Link left the temple and headed for the Castle. He realized suddenly that
there was still no way to cross the gap over the lava below. Suddenly, Rauru's
voice gave Link hope: the six sages used their power to create a rainbow bridge
leading straight to Ganondorf's front door.

-*- GANON'S CASTLE -*-

The staircase leads straight down into a room with two Beamos, but you can just
run right on by. The central room leads to six side chambers, each of which
holds a medallion inside. You must pass through each chamber and shoot each
medallion with a Light Arrow in order to break the barrier around the keep in
the center.

- FOREST HALL -

After killing the Wolfos, use Din's Fire to light the four torches nearby, then
shoot a Fire Arrow at the torch above the door. The next room may take a couple
tries. The first silver rupee is on the left. Play the Song of Time and put on
the Iron Boots to get it, then put on the Hover Boots and hover to the switch
over by the other door. Hit it, then use the Longshot to reach the target pil-
lar and the silver rupee above it. The other three rupees are easy with the
hover boots. Once you have all five, enter the door and shoot the Forest Med-
allion to dissipate the Forest Barrier.

- WATER HALL -

This is more like the Ice Hall.... The first room is a simple matter of icing
the two Freezards and melting the red ice with some blue fire (an empty bottle
is required, of course). Take an extra bottle of blue fire with you to the next
room, as you'll be needing it and there isn't a source in the next room. This
room has a two-minute time limit, but you can probably beat it in one. There
are two blocks and one hole. Push the farther block to the right, then to the
right again so that it first hits the small block, then falls right into the
hole. Now push the other block over the block that's now in the hole so that it
hits the other little block, then push it left, then left again so that it goes
right straight into the small alcove on the left side of the room. Hop up onto
the ledge with the red ice and melt it with the blue fire (that seems kinda
backwards...). Hit the rusted switch with the Megaton Hammer and enter the next
room. Shoot the Water Medallion with a Light Arrow to remove the Water Barrier.

- SHADOW HALL -

NEW UPGRADE: GOLDEN GAUNTLETS

Only one room stands between you and that barrier, but it's quite a room. Ac-
tually, it's not much of a room since it has no floor. The chest on the left
isn't really important, the Longshot will get you there if you want, but you
can't go any further. Shoot a fire arrow at the small torch on the right side
of the room to activate some temporary platforms that lead to the central plat-
form. Ignore the Like Like and continue to the next platform before the temp-
orary platforms disappear. Look to the left to see a switch on a small ledge.
Use the Lens of Truth to see a hidden trail to it. Hit it with the hammer, Big
Ed!... No, the hammer, that's a wrench, that long thingie's a hammer.... S'cuse
me, what can I do y'for?... Sorry, no more Animaniacs jokes %-o Return to the
main platform and shoot the torch by the now unlocked door to reveal a trail of
blocks leading down to another switch. Hit it with the hammer again, Big Ed....
No, that's my leg!!!... Sorry. The Longshot will now get you back up to the
chest, which contains the Golden Gauntlets! You'll get to see these in action
soon, but not yet. The Lens of Truth reveals another hidden trail leading
through the three hearts up to the door. Beyond it is the Shadow Medallion,
which will destroy the Shadow Barrier after being hit by a Light Arrow.

- FIRE HALL -

Before entering, I recommend putting on the Goron Tunic and the Hover Boots
and leaving them both on for the duration of this hall. The central platform
will slowly sink into the lava if you don't wear the Hover Boots, so be care-
ful. This is a straightforward silver rupee puzzle, two of which are easy to
get right away: one on the platform to the right (which collapses if you stay
on it) and one on the platform to the left (which doesn't collapse if you stay
on it, but happens to have fire that moves around the platform and will hurt
you if it touches you). The last three are rather odd. The first one is under-
neath that big huge Crescent Pillar on the left side of the room. Hit it with
the hammer, Big Ed!... Nope?... "So, I gathered enough explosives to blow up
Greenland".... Still nothing? Well, why don't you try out those admirable
Golden Gauntlets.... Grab that sucker and chuck it across the room. It'll end
up making a rather bumpy platform to get the last Silver Rupee, but first,
don't forget to grab the one where the pillar used to be. Now cross over to the
other side and grab the one on the octagonal platform. Now use the Hover Boots
to reach the final silver rupee. It doesn't matter at this point if you sink
into the lava, since you'll keep the rupees and the door will still be un-
locked. Enter the door and use a Light Arrow on the Fire Medallion to burn up
the Fire Barrier.

- SPIRIT HALL -

I like to save the Light Hall for last, so I usually do the Spirit Barrier
next. The first room is one of the most sadistic rooms of death in the game. It
houses five or six razor traps and a Beamos. You'll have to run past the razor
traps while collecting all five silver rupees, one of which is guarded by the
Beamos. The last two silver rupees can be reached by pulling the Armos statues
away so that the razor traps move across the room, giving you access to the
rupees. The next room has two crystal switches on the other side of a set of
bars. The first one can be hit by a fully charged spin attack, which reveals a
chest containing Bombchus. Now stand directly in front of the other crystal
switch and aim the Bombchu straight through the hole at the top of the bars.
With luck, it'll run straight through the hole and hit the switch, opening the
door onward. The next room has four sunfaces, but no sunlight. Shoot a Fire
Arrow at the cobwebs in the middle of the ceiling to let the sunlight in, then
aim your shield at the sunface directly to the right of the doorway through
which you just came in. Ignore the other three, they only reveal Wallmasters.
The final room holds the Spirit Medallion, which will dispel the Spirit Barrier
when shot with a light arrow.

- LIGHT HALL -

The door to the final hall is blocked by a crescent pillar, which will crumble
after being thrown into the keep. Enter the door and kill the invisible enemies
within. You hardly need the Lens of Truth. There's a skulltula in the center,
and Navi will show you where the keese are on top of the small treasure chests
by targeting them. Once all the enemies are killed, a chest containing a key
will appear in the center. The other chests, clockwise from the far door,
contain ice, arrows, ice, five rupees, ice, and a recovery heart. The next room
is one of the hardest rooms in the entire game:.....you have to play Zelda's
Lullaby to make a chest appear. I don't know if you can handle it, you may want
to give up now and return this game, I don't think you can figure out how to do
it....</sarcasm> Sheesh, you'd think the designers would come up with something
better than this. The next room has a rather disorienting silver rupee puzzle.
It has two boulders rolling around three walls arranged in a Y pattern. Two are
in the Y shape, one is on top, and the other two are in small alcoves around
the edge of the room. Make sure you go through the right door, though. Once you
reach the final room, shoot a light arrow at the... what? It's not there? Oh
really? There's a Floormaster that's about to drop down on you? Well, you might
want to get out of there then. You might as well go through that fake wall that
leads to the room that you really want behind the platform. A light arrow will
shatter the Light Medallion and dissolve the Light Barrier.

Now that all six barriers are gone, the shield around the keep will break,
giving you access to Ganon's Tower. Before you go, you might want to make sure
that you have all four bottles, and that they are filled with restorative
potions or fairies. My favorite mix is two blue potions and two fairies. Make
sure you have at least one fairy and at the very least, a green potion. You'll
likely need to restore both your health and your magic. You also might want to
get the enhanced defensive power from the last Great Fairy, who's cave is just
outside, blocked by a crescent pillar at the end of the road. If you need fai-
ries, there's a hidden room underneath the bridge to the keep that holds a good
ten or so fairies and four deku salesmen that sell a green potion, a red po-
tion, arrows, and bombs. Remember to switch to your Hylian Shield to deflect
the deku nuts that they shoot. Once you're all stocked up, enter Ganon's Tower.

- GANON'S TOWER -

The first room has about six Fire Keese, two of which will attack almost as
soon as you enter. Three more guard the staircase. Shoot them all down, then
continue up the staircase in the direction of the organ music. The next room
has two Dinolfos, who aren't too difficult. The room above them has two Stalfos
and a flaming chest. Kill the two Stalfos, then open the chest to get the Boss
Key. You might need that later. The next room is my favorite: not one but TWO
Iron Knuckles :-) To get the full effect, wake them both up at once :-):-):-)
Just make sure that they don't kill you. It's fine if they drain your energy
to almost nothing, just don't waste a fairy on them. Once they're gone, climb
the next staircase and open the door.... A bunch of pots, a climbable wall,
louder organ music, and another door. Ignore the pots, you'll save those for
later. Just enter the next door and climb the last staircase....

-*- THE FINAL BATTLE -*-

- GANONDORF DRAGMIRE -

Immediately retreat to one of the four corners to avoid getting pounded by
Ganondorf's first attack. The initial impact will dislodge the floor around the
central platform, leaving the blocks around the edge of the room still intact.
Even so, the rest of the blocks will eventually fall, so stay in the corners.
Once you're out from under his feet, Ganondorf will suck up all the light in
the room and throw it at you. This part of the battle is just like Phantom
Ganon in the Forest Temple: use the Master Sword as a baseball bat and deflect
Ganondorf's light attacks back at him. He'll use his cape to bounce them back,
so keep hitting them back and forth until he lets his guard down. Immediately
shoot him with a Light Arrow, then Z-Target him and wait until he collapses.
Immediately shoot the Longshot into him to pull yourself to him, then hack away
with your sword until he recovers. Don't bother trying to use a jump attack, it
takes too much time. If you're lucky, though, you may be able to launch the
Longshot at him right before he lands so that it hits him higher and pulls you
over to him higher up in the air, allowing you to do a jump attack by immed-
iately drawing your sword before you land. Anyway, once he recovers, shoot the
Longshot into the corner before he totally recovers and continues his attacks.
Repeat this process until he gives up, which doesn't happen after a lot of
sword slashing and a different attack that your sword doesn't deflect as
easily. When he starts sucking in energy a lot slower, make sure you start
running to dodge his next attack, it's tough to deflect. It also has a ten-
dancy to dislodge more of the floor. If you're really brave, try doing a spin
attack to deflect it. You'll need to begin charging up at the same time as him,
then release it right after his first yell of "Awwwwwwww..." and right as soon
as he yells "HYAAAAAAAAAH!" If it's timed right, you'll deflect all his attacks
and some of them will bounce back at him. They'll stun him just like the other
simple attacks, so use the same Light Arrow / Longshot / Sword strategy to
attack. Keep it up until he gives up.

- ESCAPE FROM THE TOWER -

With Ganondorf's last breath, he dissolves the roof and outer walls, but he
doesn't stop there. The whole tower will soon collapse, so follow Zelda down
the ramps and over the gaps. She'll use her magic to open the iron bars block-
ing the way. There will also be a couple delays, such as Zelda being trapped
behind a wall of fire while you duke it out with some Stalfos. There's also a
ReDead or two on that bridge that you saw above the Water Hall. Anyway, once
you reach the exit, you'll be safe...for a few seconds, at least....

- GANON -

Ganondorf has a little surprise left for you: once the castle has been com-
pletely leveled, Link will automatically investigate a strange noise in the
ruins. Then, from the middle of the rubble, Ganondorf emerges and transforms
into Ganon, a gigantic pig of evil with two very large blades. His first attack
will knock the Master Sword out of your hands. There's nothing you can do to
stop it. You'll want to stay a little ways away from Ganon, since he's rather
dangerous. The only way to get close to him is to shoot his face with a Light
Arrow to blind him. His weak spot is his tail on his back, so run around him
and smash it with the Megaton Hammer or hit it with the Biggoron Sword. Repeat
this strategy until Princess Zelda hollers, informing you that the ring of fire
has dissipated long enough to grab the Master Sword. Take it and continue your
attacks. Once Zelda weakens Ganon with her beam of light, inflict the final
blow to defeat Ganon.



                           -+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-
                         -+-+-+- THE END -+-+-+-
                           -+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-



 __________________________
|FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS|
|——————————————————————————|


Q: How do I get the Golden Scale?
A: You have to catch a really really really big fish as Adult Link at the
Fishing Pond. There's usually one right in the middle of the pond by the
log, though it may not be there. Just keep trying. Once you catch one, take
it to the guy at the counter. If it's big enough, he'll give you the Golden
Scale.

Q: How do I carry more rupees?
A: To get the first wallet upgrade, find ten Gold Skulltula tokens and take
them to the Skulltula House in Kakariko Village. One of the Skulltula Children
will give you the Adult Wallet. To get the Giant's Wallet, you have to catch
thirty Gold Skulltula tokens.

Q: Where is the fourth bottle?
A: That's a little complicated. You have to kill and catch all ten Big Poes
out in Hyrule Field. They're all in specific locations, but it's a pain to
find them all. It helps to use Epona to kill them. Just ride around EVERYWHERE
and if a Poe shows up, shoot it down. It should only take two hits. Once it's
down, immediately get off and catch it in an empty bottle. Take it to the Poe
Salesman just inside the ruins of Hyrule Castle Town. Once you give him all
ten, he'll give you the fourth bottle.

Q: What time zone are you in?
A: I seriously get this a lot in Instant Messages. I am in the Pacific Time
Zone, so unless you are too (or you're in Alaska time), chances are, you're an
hour or two (or three or four or even eight) hours later than I am. I have a
friend in Scotland who read my MM FAQ, so it's the middle of the night there
while it's my dinner time here.

I'll add more later when I get more questions.


 _____
|SONGS|
|—————|

KEY:
UC  Up-C
DC  Down-C
RC  Right-C
LC  Left-C
A   A
:|  Repeat

NAME: ZELDA'S LULLABY
NOTES: LC, UC, RC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Impa
USE: This song is essential for getting through the game. It lets people and
things know that you have a connection with the Royal Family. Zora's Waterfall
will dry up and let you in, Darunia will open his door, waters will rise and
fall, just because you know a simple song. Any time you see the Triforce logo,
try playing this song to see what happens.

NAME: EPONA'S SONG
NOTES: UC, LC, RC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Malon
USE: Calls your horse, Epona. Wherever she may be, she will magically appear in
front of you, galloping towards you even if you play it facing a wall or some-
thing. She may not be able to reach you, depending on where you are (if you can
ride her there, she can get to you there, but there may be little obstacles in
the way that any horse would be able to go around, like tree stumps).

NAME: SARIA'S SONG
NOTES: DC, RC, LC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Saria
USE: Normally, this song will link your mind to Saria's and allow you to com-
municate telepathically. Saria can often give you hints and such. It can also
make a certain goron dance like crazy and get you a piece of heart from a skull
kid.

NAME: SUN'S SONG
NOTES: RC, DC, UC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Tombstone of Royal Family
USE: Outside, this song turns day into night and night into day. If you're in
any area where time has stopped, you'll be returned to where you entered the
area. If you're out somewhere where time keeps going, it will simply change the
time to either morning or night, whichever the case may be. This also turns any
nearby ReDeads into paralyzed mummies.

NAME: SONG OF TIME
NOTES: RC, A, DC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Princess Zelda
USE: Opens the door of time and moves any large blue blocks with the Symbol of
Time on them. It also makes them appear when they're not there, or disappear
when they're in the way. Other than that, it doesn't really do much. It doesn't
actually make you travel through time, but it will in the sequel....

NAME: SONG OF STORMS
NOTES: A, DC, UC, :|
LEARNED FROM: Ghost of the Flat composer
USE: Calls a storm to speed up the Windmill and to open some underground
grottoes.

NAME: MINUET OF FOREST
NOTES: A, UC, LC, RC, LC, RC
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to the Sacred Forest Meadow, right outside the
Forest Temple.

NAME: BOLERO OF FIRE
NOTES: DC, A, DC, A, RC, DC, RC, DC
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to the Death Mountain Crater, right outside the
Fire Temple.

NAME: SERENADE OF WATER
NOTES: A, DC, RC, RC, LC
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to Lake Hylia, right outside the Water Temple.

NAME: NOCTURNE OF SHADOW
NOTES: LC, RC, RC, A, LC, RC, DC
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to the Graveyard, right outside the Shadow Temple.

NAME: REQUIEM OF SPIRIT
NOTES: A, DC, A, RC, DC, A
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to the Desert Colossus, right outside the Spirit
Temple.

NAME: PRELUDE OF LIGHT
NOTES: UC, RC, UC, RC, LC, UC
LEARNED FROM: Sheik
USE: Teleports you instantly to the Temple of Time.

NAME: SCARECROW SONG
NOTES: DC, RC, UC, RC, LC, UC, RC, A
LEARNED FROM: ME! (you can make up your own eight-note song, but this is the
one I always use).
USE: As young Link, teach this song or any other eight-note song to Bonooru the
Scarecrow at Lake Hylia. As adult Link, return to Bonooru and talk to him to
find out that his friend Pierre is out traveling. Now, whenever Pierre is
nearby underground, play the Scarecrow Song to make him pop up. You can shoot
him with your hookshot to pull yourself to him.

 _____
|ITEMS|
|—————|

-*- ITEMS -*-

One quick point to make about items that have an ammo limit: any upgrades for
them can be gotten in any order, even though different characters may give them
to you. The character will only give you the next available upgrade, and not
necessarily the same upgrade that they always give.

OCARINA OF TIME
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: HYRULE FIELD
HOW TO GET IT: After getting all three Spiritual Stones, Zelda will throw this
into the moat outside Hyrule Castle Town as she rides by with Impa. Dive down
to get it.
USE: The most important item in the game, and the funnest too! Play with the
four C buttons and the A button. Top C is the note D, Left C is the note B,
Right C is the note A, Down C is the note F, and A is the note D. Using these
five notes, you can play anything in the game that you need to. Using the con-
trol stick, you can push Up to push the note up one step, and vice versa. You
can press R to push it up a half step, and Z to push it down a half step (usu-
ally to make the note sharp or flat). There are twelve songs you can play on
it, but you can also just play anything you want to. See the SONGS section for
more details.

One final note on the Ocarina. If, for some reason, you want to play a song
that will do something special and you don't want it to have that effect, hold
the L button while you play. You can also hold the Z-Button to have the same
effect, but it will play the notes one half-step lower, though you don't notice
it since it affects all five buttons.

DEKU STICK
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: PLANTS, POTS, SHOPS, AND DEKU BABAS
HOW TO GET IT: Just bust open some bushes, rocks, or pots, or buy them at some
shops. You can also kill the kind of Deku Babas that just stand straight up and
chomp. The kind that fight back only give you deku nuts and such.
USE: Can be used to hit enemies, but they're weak and will break easily. The
best use is to light them on fire and use them to light torches or spider webs.
These are basically useless after getting the Fire Arrow.
LIMITS: 10, 20, 30
UPGRADE: Find the salesman scrub below the bridge in the lost woods. Bounce
his Deku Nut back at him, then buy the upgrade for 40 rupees.
UPGRADE: Find the Forest Stage in the Lost Woods in the area with two deku
salesmen (it's under the grass, near the butterflies). Wear the Skull Mask to
get it. Also, the Bunny Hood, Gerudo Mask, and Goron Mask will get you rupees.

DEKU NUT
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: PLANTS, POTS, SHOPS, AND DEKU BABAS
HOW TO GET IT: Either buy them at the Kokiri Shop or find one after killing a
malignant Deku Baba.
USE: Throw at enemies to stun them. They're not really very useful.
LIMIT: 20

FAIRY SLINGSHOT
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: DEKU TREE
HOW TO GET IT: See DEKU TREE section of the WALKTHROUGH.
USE: Long range projectile. Press the C button to take it out and the camera
will switch to First Person (like you're looking through Link's eyes). Press
and hold the same C button again to take out a deku seed, then release to shoot
it (you might want to aim first...). Use this to shoot flying enemies, distant
enemies, dangerous enemies, eye switches, crystal switches, and whatever else
you want. If you're bad at aiming, try Z-Targeting your target first.
LIMIT: BULLET BAG (30), BIGGER BULLET BAG (40), BIGGEST BULLET BAG (50)
UPGRADE: Score 300 points in three shots at the target in the Lost Woods
to the right of the entrance.
UPGRADE: Shoot all 10 rupees at the Shooting Gallery in Hyrule Castle
Town.

FAIRY OCARINA
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: LOST WOODS
HOW TO GET IT: Receive it from Saria on the bridge after defeating Ghoma.
USE: Exactly the same as the Ocarina of Time, but doesn't have the power to
open the Door of Time in the Temple of Time. Also, the Ocarina of Time will
replace this once you receive it.

BOMB
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: DODONGO'S CAVERN
HOW TO GET IT: See the DODONGO'S CAVERN section of the WALKTHROUGH for details.
USE: Press the C button once to take out a Bomb, then press A while standing
still to drop the Bomb, or press A while running to throw the Bomb. After about
5 seconds, the Bomb will explode, destroying nearby enemies, rocks, plants,
pots, weak walls, or anything else that can be blown up, including you.
AMMUNITION LIMITS: BOMB BAG (20), BIGGER BOMB BAG (30), BIGGEST BOMB BAG (40)
UPGRADE: Play Bombchu Bowling until the prize comes up as a
large brown bag. Win the game to receive it as your prize.
UPGRADE: Bomb the giant rolling goron in Goron City when he's next to his sign.

BOMBCHU
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: BOMBCHU SHOP AND CHESTS
HOW TO GET IT: Find one in a chest or buy them at the Bombchu Shop.
USE: Press C once to take out, then press C again (or maybe A) to place it at
your feet. It will then begin to move away, going over any obstacle (except
water), going up walls, across ceilings, anywhere it can, until it blows up
like a bomb.
LIMIT: 50

MAGIC BEANS
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: ZORA'S RIVER
HOW TO GET IT: Talk to the man sitting by the river eating beans to buy one.
The price keeps going up as you buy them, from 10 up to 100. Do you eat beans?
Do you like George Wendt? Would you eat beans at a George Wendt movie? Would
you like to see George Wendt eating beans?...
LIMIT: 10

BOOMERANG
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: INSIDE JABU-JABU'S BELLY
HOW TO GET IT: See INSIDE JABU-JABU'S BELLY section of the WALKTHROUGH
USE: Press and hold the C-Button to aim, then release it. It can kill weak en-
emies and stun stronger ones. It can also retrieve distant Gold Skulltula
tokens. It also helps a lot to use Z-Targeting.

HOOKSHOT
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: GRAVEYARD
HOW TO GET IT: Successfully complete Dampé's race.
USE: One of the most important items in the game. The Hookshot is a spike
attached to a long chain. When fired, the hook will pull the chain out. If the
hook latches onto something, the chain will retract and pull you to the object.
It can also be used as a weapon. The hook will usually work on wood, scare-
crows, targets, target posts, stone torches, and other things. It is aimed much
like the Bow and Slingshot, except this time, a small ruby shines a small red
dot of light on objects if they're in range and makes targeting things much
easier.

LONGSHOT
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: WATER TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: See the WATER TEMPLE section of the WALKTHROUGH.
USE: Exactly like the Hookshot except with a longer range.

FAIRY BOW
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: FOREST TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: See FOREST TEMPLE section of the WALKTHROUGH
USE: Long range projectile. Press the C button to take it out, and the camera
will switch to First Person (like you're looking through Link's eyes). Press
and hold the same C button again to take out an arrow, then release to shoot it
(you might want to aim first...). Use this to shoot flying enemies, distant
enemies, dangerous enemies, crystal switches, and whatever else you want to. If
you're bad at aiming, try Z-Targeting your target first.
AMMUNITION LIMITS: QUIVER (30), LARGE QUIVER (40), LARGEST QUIVER (50)
UPGRADE: Get a perfect score at the Kakariko Shooting Gallery.
UPGRADE: Get more than 1500 points at the Gerudo Horseback Archery Range.

FIRE ARROW
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: LAKE HYLIA
HOW TO GET IT: Shoot an arrow into the rising sun from the stone on the island
out in the lake.
USE: Melts any ice, lights torches on fire, and burns spider webs. Also hurts
enemies (duh).

ICE ARROW
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: GERUDO TRAINING GROUND
HOW TO GET IT: See SIDE MISSIONS section for details on how to find it.
USE: Freezes enemies. Not very useful.

LIGHT ARROW
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: LIGHT TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: Gather all six medallions, then return to the Temple of Time.
USE: Turns enemies into Purple Rupees, destroys evil things.

MEGATON HAMMER
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: FIRE TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: See the FIRE TEMPLE section of the WALKTHROUGH.
USE: A very heavy weapon used like the Biggoron Sword, i.e. you can't use the
shield. It's quite powerful and can be used to hit rusty buttons, boulders,
enemies, and as a backup if you can't use your sword....

LENS OF TRUTH
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: BOTTOM OF THE WELL
HOW TO GET IT: See the BOTTOM OF THE WELL section in the WALKTHROUGH.
USE: Makes hidden things seen and fake things invisible, especially walls.

DIN'S FIRE
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE FAIRY FOUNTAIN
HOW TO GET IT: Bomb the boulder on the side path near Hyrule Castle, then enter
and play Zelda's Lullaby.
USE: Creates a large ball of flame around you that expands and kills nearby
enemies and lights torches.

FARORE'S WIND
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: ZORA'S FOUNTAIN
HOW TO GET IT: Bomb the rock blocking the fairy fountain, enter, then play
Zelda's Lullaby.
USE: Use once to set a warp point in a temple, then use again to either reset
the position or to warp to the room where the warp point was set.

NAYRU'S LOVE
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: DESERT COLOSSUS
HOW TO GET IT: Bomb the crack on the north wall of the Desert Colossus, then
enter and play Zelda's Lullaby.
USE: Makes you temporarily invincible.

BOTTLES
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: VARIOUS (see BOTTLES section for details)
HOW TO GET IT: VARIOUS (see BOTTLES section for details)
USE: Press the C button once to swing it (if it's empty). If there is anything
you can catch nearby, it will go into the bottle. Use it to store red fairies,
red, green, and blue potions, milk, poes, and other small items. Use it again
to take the item out / drink the contents / release the contents / etc.

TRADE ITEMS
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: See SIDE MISSIONS section
HOW TO GET IT: See SIDE MISSIONS section
USE: Use these items (in the lower-right corner of the ITEMS subscreen) for
many things. Usually, these items can be traded for different items, which can
then be traded again, and again. Some items are just used to give to people,
while others may just be for your use. Usually, trade items have no logical use
for you and you can't use them. Some of the more useful items are the masks
that you can sell to people. Even after you sell them, you can still borrow one
at a time from the Happy Mask Shop. Most are just for fun, but the Mask of
Truth can be used to get secrets out of the Gossip Stones.

-*- EQUIPMENT -*-

- SWORDS -

KOKIRI SWORD
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: KOKIRI FOREST
HOW TO GET IT: Crawl through the small tunnel at the Training Ground, then
follow the path to the large chest on the stump.

MASTER SWORD
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: TEMPLE OF TIME
HOW TO GET IT: After getting all three Spiritual Stones and the Ocarina of
Time, play the Song of Time in front of the Door of Time, then enter the cham-
ber and pull it out of the Pedestal of Time (that must be the most times that
"of time" has ever been used in a single sentence >_<).

GIANT'S KNIFE
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: GORON CITY
HOW TO GET IT: Buy it from Medigoron.
USE: This sword is extremely powerful, but also large and very awkward. It
takes two hands to use it, so you can't use your shield at the same time. It's
also extremely flimsy, and breaks shortly after you buy it. Demand a refund!...
Just kidding, you can get one that doesn't break by getting the Biggoron Sword.
See the SIDE MISSIONS section for details.

BIGGORON SWORD
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN
HOW TO GET IT: See SIDE MISSIONS section
USE: This sword is extremely powerful, but also large and very awkward. It
takes two hands to use it, so you can't use your shield at the same time.

- SHIELDS -

DEKU SHIELD
AGE: YOUNG
LOCATION: KOKIRI FOREST
HOW TO GET IT: Buy it for 40 rupees at the Kokiri Shop.
USE: This shield is a bit weak, but it does the job. It can't stop beams and it
burns up if it catches on fire.

HYLIAN SHIELD
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE TOWN, GRAVEYARD
HOW TO GET IT: Buy it at the Bazaar or find it in one of the graves.
USE: Even though it's stronger than the Deku Shield, it still can't stop
beams. It's too heavy for Young Link to lift, so if you use it as Young Link,
you'll crouch down and hide under it, which is very useful for protecting
yourself from falling boulders on Death Mountain. As Adult Link it's used just
like the Deku Shield.

MIRROR SHIELD
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: SPIRIT TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: See SPIRIT TEMPLE section of the WALKTHROUGH.
USE: The only shield that can deflect beams. It can also reflect light onto
objects such as sun emblems, enemies, and other mirrors.

- TUNICS -

KOKIRI TUNIC
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: LINK'S HOUSE
HOW TO GET IT: Duh, you start out with it....
USE: Prevents embarrassment.

GORON TUNIC
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: GORON CITY
HOW TO GET IT: Get one free from Darunia's son by bombing him to get his at-
tention.
USE: Allows you to enter hot areas such as the Death Mountain Crater.

ZORA TUNIC
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: ZORA'S DOMAIN
HOW TO GET IT: Thaw King Zora VI to get it for free.
USE: Allows you to breath under water.

- BOOTS -

KOKIRI BOOTS
AGE: BOTH
LOCATION: LINK'S HOUSE
HOW TO GET IT: ...Duh.

IRON BOOTS
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: ICE CAVERN
HOW TO GET IT: Defeat the White Wolfos in the final room and open the chest to
receive them.
USE: Allows you to sink to the bottom of any body of water and walk around.
Also useful for driving people insane with its noisy CLANK CLANK CLANK noises.

HOVER BOOTS
AGE: ADULT
LOCATION: SHADOW TEMPLE
HOW TO GET IT: Defeat the first mini-boss in the Shadow Temple and open the
chest to receive them.
USE: Allows you to hover across gaps momentarily. It only lasts a couple of
seconds, though.

 _______________
|PIECES OF HEART|
|———————————————|

Here are the locations of every Piece of Heart. For the age description, if it
says "Both," that means you can get it at any time. If it says "Young / Adult,"
that means that you must do something as a kid so that you can get it as an
adult (planting magic beans, for example). If it says "Adult / Young," it means
that you must do something as an adult to be able to do it as a kid, but you
may also be able to do it as an adult, too (getting the Golden Scale, for ex-
ample).

LOCATION: LON LON RANCH
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Enter the storage building on the other side of the field and
push the crates around until you find a small hole in the wall. Crawl through
to find a Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: HYRULE FIELD
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: Near the entrance to Lake Hylia is a small fenced-off area. Drop
a bomb right in the middle of it to find a secret grotto and a Deku Salesman.
You might also want to take ten rupees with you.

LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN TRAIL
AGE: Young / Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Plant a magic bean right outside the Dodongo's Cavern, then re-
turn as an adult. Use the bean platform to reach the Piece of Heart above the
entrance.

LOCATION: HYRULE FIELD
AGE: Adult / Young
HOW TO GET IT: Out in the middle of the field, quite a ways north of Lon Lon
Ranch, is a tree planted next to a secret grotto. Bomb the base to find it. If
you're doing this as a kid, you must have the Golden Scale, otherwise use the
Zora Tunic and Iron Boots.

LOCATION: KAKARIKO VILLAGE
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: As a kid, climb Death Mountain and talk to Kaepora Gaebora at
the summit. He'll fly you back down to Kakariko and deposit you on the roof of
Impa's old house. Drop down onto the small roof above the Cucco Coop. Enter the
small door to find a Piece of Heart and a cow locked behind bars. As an adult,
use the Hookshot on the Kakariko roofs to reach the roof of Impa's house, then
drop down on the side and enter the small door.

LOCATION: GRAVEYARD
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Late in the evening, Dampé the gravedigger has a little contest.
Tell him when to dig and he'll dig. Any treasure he finds is yours to keep. If
you try enough times, you'll eventually be rewarded with a Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: GRAVEYARD
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Race Dampé in his grave again and finish in one minute or less
to receive a second prize. If you're just a couple seconds over, try using the
Longshot on the torch in the last room to bypass the spiraling path. Make sure
you don't get hit by fire more than twice.

LOCATION: KAKARIKO VILLAGE
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Use the Hookshot to reach the roof of the large, two-story
building with a purple roof and a man on it who needs some serious fashion
help. Talk to him to receive a Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: WINDMILL
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: After racing Dampé, climb out of the tunnel to find yourself in
the Windmill. Hop across to the rotating platform and ride it over to the ledge
with a Piece of Heart on it.

LOCATION: KAKARIKO VILLAGE
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: Collect 50 Golden Skulltulas and return to the Spider House in
Kakariko Village. Talk to one of the Skulltula Children to receive a reward.

LOCATION: GRAVEYARD
AGE: Young / Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Plant a magic bean in the soft soil in the Graveyard, then re-
turn as an adult and ride the platform up to the ledge. Bust open the box to
find the Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: GRAVEYARD
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: From the Triforce logo, look towards the rest of the Graveyard,
In the row of graves on the left, pull open the second from the right (make
sure that neither Dampé nor his mini-me are wandering around). Drop down inside
and play the Sun's Song.

LOCATION: ZORA'S RIVER
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Play the Song of Storms for the Fabulous Five Froggish Tenors.

LOCATION: ZORA'S RIVER
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Play every song for the Fabulous Five Froggish Tenors, then play
their game. Remember which ones go with which notes, then play the notes when-
ever a bug appears above one of them. It's tough, but possible.

LOCATION: ZORA'S RIVER
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: As a kid, grab the Cucco and take it halfway up the river to the
point where you have to cross the river again. Turn around and look down river
towards the large, tall plateau. Using the cucco, jump down to the ledge on its
left side. Climb up the ladder and use the other cucco to reach the Piece of
Heart on the nearby platform. As an adult, you can swim to the ledge and climb
onto it.

LOCATION: ZORA'S RIVER
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: Carry the Cucco all the way up the river to the Waterfall. Use
it to float over to the Piece of Heart on a nearby ledge. You can also use the
Hover Boots to get it if you're an adult.

LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE TOWN
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Enter the Treasure Chest Game at night, then either play all the
way through blindly, or use the Lens of Truth to see which chest contains the
key.

LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE TOWN
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Play Bombchu Bowling until the prize is a Piece of Heart. Win
all three rounds to get it.

LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE TOWN
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: At night, find Little Richard (the dog, not the singer) by the
Bazaar. Get him to follow you back to Mamamu Yan's house in the back alley.

LOCATION: LOST WOODS
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Play Saria's Song for the lone Skull Kid to the left of the
first room to get a Piece of Heart as a sign of friendship. If only it were
that easy in the sequel....

LOCATION: LOST WOODS
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: In the larger area to the right of the entrance, two more Skull
Kids stand on a double tree stump. Play along with the songs that they play on
their flutes. After several sessions, they'll give you a Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: ZORA'S DOMAIN
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Light a Deku Stick in the King's Chamber, then carry it down the
stairs to the sconce. Light it, then extinguish your stick by putting it away
(it'll burn out soon), then light another and drop down to the lower level.
Quickly and carefully light all the torches on the lower level to reveal a
Treasure Chest behind the waterfall. There's one by the shop, one in the water,
and two behind the waterfall.

LOCATION: ZORA'S FOUNTAIN
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Search the ice floes to find a Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: ZORA'S FOUNTAIN
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Put on the Zora Tunic and the Iron Boots and hop in. A Piece of
Heart sits at the bottom.

LOCATION: ICE CAVERN
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Capture some blue fire in a bottle, then use it to thaw the
Piece of Heart frozen in red ice.

LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN CRATER
AGE: Young / Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Plant a bean in the soft soil as a child (warp using the Bolero
of Fire), then ride the platform to one of the smoking mountains.

LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN CRATER
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: Climb down the rough wall to a small alcove and a Piece of
Heart.

LOCATION: GORON CITY
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: First, light all the torches on the bottom level to make the
large urn start spinning. Climb up to the next level and throw bombs in to the
spinning urn until it spits out a Piece of Heart. It may take multiple tries.

LOCATION: FISHING POND
AGE: Young Link
HOW TO GET IT: Catch a lunker heavy enough to beat the old record to win a
prize. Talk to the man behind the counter and ask him to weigh your fish to get
it.

LOCATION: LAKESIDE LABORATORY
AGE: Adult / Young
HOW TO GET IT: Use the Golden Scale to dive down to the bottom of the pool. The
Professor will be so pleased with your skill that he will reward you.

LOCATION: LAKE HYLIA
AGE: Young / Adult
HOW TO GET IT: There are two ways to do this. One is to buy a bean and plant it
in the soft soil, then return as an adult and ride it up to the roof of the
laboratory. The second and easier way is to talk to Bonooru first so that
Pierre will appear if you play the Scarecrow's Song, then play it next to the
lab. Pierre will pop up and you can hookshot your way up to the roof. Climb the
ladder up to the platform above to find the Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: GERUDO VALLEY
AGE: Both
HOW TO GET IT: A ladder behind the northern waterfall leads to a small cave and
another Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: GERUDO VALLEY
AGE: Both
AGE: Using either the Hookshot or the nearby Cucco, fly down to the small ledge
on the western side of the canyon. Inside the box is a Piece of Heart. Be care-
ful when rolling into it, you don't want to roll off the edge. Use a bomb to
destroy it if you're scared of falling off.

LOCATION: GERUDO FORTRESS
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Use the Longshot on the chest on the roof of the Fortress to
find another Piece of Heart.

LOCATION: GERUDO FORTRESS
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Get a score of 1,000 or more on the Horseback Archery range. To
really rack up a lot of points, shoot the small pots underneath the large
targets.

LOCATION: DESERT COLOSSUS
AGE: Young / Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Warp using the Requiem of Spirit as a kid, then plant a magic
bean in the soft soil. Return, then use the platform to reach the Piece of
Heart atop the stone arch.

 _______
|BOTTLES|
|———————|

LOCATION: LON LON RANCH
AGE: Young
HOW TO GET IT: Play Talon's Super Cucco Game and find the three Super Cuccos
that are mixed in with the rest of the regular cuccos. If you want to cheat,
just grab all the cuccos before the game starts and throw them behind the
counter. When Talon throws the Super Cuccos into the room, they'll be easy
to find.

LOCATION: KAKARIKO VILLAGE
AGE: Young
HOW TO GET IT: The cucco keeper in Kakariko, known to some as Anju, has lost
all her cuccos. They're scattered around the village, and she needs your
help to find them. Take each one you find and return it to the fenced-off
area by Anju. There are seven in all. One of them is near the cucco coop,
over by the path to the Graveyard. Two more are near the entrances to the
village from Hyrule Field and from Death Mountain. Another one is hiding in
the box by the house under the watchtower (roll into it to break it open).
The last three require the use of other cuccos to reach. One is in front of
the Skulltula House, but to reach it, you'll need to take another cucco
around and jump off the ledge by the building under construction. The cucco
will flap its wings enough to allow you to glide down to the fenced-off
area where the other cucco is. The last two are both in another hard-to-
reach area. Take another cucco and run up the stairs to the Windmill. Run
along the fence and jump off at the end, veering slightly over to the left.
You should barely be able to make it onto the fenced-off ledge. Throw your
cucco back over the fence, then run down and take the one below you. Return
it to the other side of the fence, then climb the nearby ladder. You should
find the last one on the ledge by the Windmill. Once you return all seven
to the coop, talk to Anju to receive a glass bottle.

LOCATION: LAKE HYLIA
AGE: Young
HOW TO GET IT: After getting the Silver Scale in Zora's Domain, use it to
reach the underwater tunnel and warp to Lake Hylia. As soon as you emerge,
you should see an item at the bottom of the lake. Dive down and retrieve
it. It's a glass bottle containing a letter from Princess Ruto. Once you
show the letter to King Zora, the bottle will be yours to keep.

LOCATION: HYRULE CASTLE TOWN
AGE: Adult
HOW TO GET IT: Using Epona, the Fairy Bow, and your other empty bottles,
kill all ten Big Poes out in Hyrule Field, catch them in bottles, and take
each one to the Poe Salesman just inside the ruins of Hyrule Castle Town.
Each poe will only appear in one place, so you'll need to search every
inch of the entire field. Once you give the Poe Salesman all ten, he'll
give you the last bottle.

 ________________
|SHOPS AND PRICES|
|————————————————|

All the shops, items for sale, and games to play are listed here. The time of
day when the shop is open is also listed.

-*- KOKIRI FOREST -*-

- KOKIRI SHOP -
HOURS:
ITEMS FOR SALE
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
ARROWS               10         20 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               30         60 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
DEKU NUTS            10         30 RUPEES  NONE
DEKU SEEDS           30         30 RUPEES  FAIRY SLINGSHOT
DEKU SHIELD           1         40 RUPEES  NONE
DEKU STICK            1         10 RUPEES  NONE
RECOVERY HEART        1         10 RUPEES  NONE

-*- HYRULE CASTLE TOWN -*-

- BAZAAR -
HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
ARROWS               10         20 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               30         60 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               50         90 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
BOMBS                 5         35 RUPEES  BOMB BAG
DEKU STICK            1         10 RUPEES  NONE
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
HYLIAN SHIELD         1         80 RUPEES  NONE
RECOVERY HEART        1         10 RUPEES  NONE

- POTION SHOP -
HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
BLUE FIRE             1        300 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, GIANT'S WALLET
BUG                   1         50 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
FAIRY                 1         50 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
FISH                  1        200 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, ADULT WALLET
GREEN POTION          1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
RED POTION            1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
POE                   1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE

- HAPPY MASK SHOP -
HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR LOAN:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
KEATON MASK           1         10 RUPEES  OPENED GATE TO DEATH MOUNTAIN
SKULL MASK            1          ? RUPEES  SOLD KEATON MASK
SPOOKY MASK           1         30 RUPEES  SOLD SKULL MASK
BUNNY HOOD            1         50 RUPEES  SOLD SPOOKY MASK
GORON MASK            1      NOT FOR SALE  SOLD BUNNY HOOD
ZORA MASK             1      NOT FOR SALE  SOLD BUNNY HOOD
GERUDO MASK           1      NOT FOR SALE  SOLD BUNNY HOOD
MASK OF TRUTH         1      NOT FOR SALE  SOLD BUNNY HOOD

- SHOOTING GALLERY -
HOURS: DAY
GAMES TO PLAY
NAME                 PRICE         PRIZE                REQUIREMENTS
TARGET RANGE          20 RUPEES    FREE GAME            SHOOT 8 RUPEES
                                   BULLET BAG UPGRADE   SHOOT 10 RUPEES

- BOMBCHU BOWLING ALLEY -
HOURS: DAY
GAMES TO PLAY
NAME                 PRICE         PRIZE                REQUIREMENTS
BOMBCHU BOWLING       30 RUPEES    BOMBS, BOMBCHU,      PUT A BOMBCHU THROUGH
                                   50 RUPEES, PIECE OF  ALL THREE HOLES WHILE
                                   HEART, OR BOMB BAG   AVOIDING THE OBSTACLES

- BOMBCHU SHOP -
HOURS: NIGHT
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
BOMBCHU               10       100 RUPEES  ADULT WALLET
BOMBCHU               20       180 RUPEES  ADULT WALLET

- TREASURE BOX SHOP -
HOURS: DAY AND NIGHT
GAMES TO PLAY
NAME                 PRICE         PRIZE                REQUIREMENTS
TREASURE CHEST GAME   10 RUPEES    1 RUPEE              ROOMS 1-2
                                   5 RUPEES             ROOMS 3-4
                                   20 RUPEES            ROOMS 5-6
                                   PIECE OF HEART       ROOM 8

-*- LON LON RANCH -*-

HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
LON LON MILK          1                    EMPTY BOTTLE, WON CUCCO GAME
GAMES TO PLAY
NAME                 PRICE         PRIZE                REQUIREMENTS
SUPER CUCCO HUNT     FREE / 10 RPS BOTTLE W/MILK        CATCH THREE SUPER
                                                        CUCCOS
-*- KAKARIKO VILLAGE -*-

- BAZAAR -
HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
ARROWS               10         20 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               30         60 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               50         90 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
BOMBS                 5         35 RUPEES  BOMB BAG
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
DEKU STICK            1         10 RUPEES  NONE
RECOVERY HEART        1         10 RUPEES  NONE
HYLIAN SHIELD         1         80 RUPEES  NONE

- POTION SHOP -
HOURS: DAY
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
BLUE FIRE             1        300 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, GIANT'S WALLET
BUG                   1         50 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
FAIRY                 1         50 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
FISH                  1        200 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, ADULT WALLET
POE                   1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
GREEN POTION          1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE
RED POTION            1         30 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE

- WITCH'S SHOP -
HOURS:
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
BLUE POTION           1        200 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, ADULT WALLET

- SHOOTING GALLERY -
HOURS: DAY
GAMES TO PLAY
NAME                 PRICE         PRIZE                REQUIREMENTS
TARGET RANGE          20 RUPEES    FREE GAME            SHOOT 8 RUPEES
                                   QUIVER UPGRADE       SHOOT 10 RUPEES

-*- GORON CITY -*-

- GORON SHOP
HOURS: DAY & NIGHT
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
BOMBS                 5         25 RUPEES  BOMB BAG
BOMBS                10         50 RUPEES  BOMB BAG
BOMBS                20         80 RUPEES  BOMB BAG
BOMBS                30        120 RUPEES  BOMB BAG, ADULT WALLET
GORON TUNIC           1        200 RUPEES  ADULT, ADULT WALLET
RECOVERY HEART        1         10 RUPEES  NONE
RED POTION            1         40 RUPEES  NONE

-*- ZORA'S RIVER -*-

- ZORA SHOP -
HOURS: DAY & NIGHT
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
ARROWS               10         20 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               30         60 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
ARROWS               50         90 RUPEES  FAIRY BOW
DEKU NUTS             5         15 RUPEES  NONE
FISH                  1        200 RUPEES  EMPTY BOTTLE, ADULT WALLET
RECOVERY HEART        1         10 RUPEES  NONE
RED POTION            1         50 RUPEES  NONE
ZORA TUNIC            1        300 RUPEES  ADULT, GIANT'S WALLET

- MAGIC BEAN SALESMAN -
HOURS: DAY & NIGHT
ITEMS FOR SALE:
NAME                QUANTITY   PRICE       REQUIREMENTS
MAGIC BEANS          1          10         NONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          20         BUY FIRST ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          30         BUY SECOND ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          40         BUY THIRD ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          50         BUY FOURTH ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          60         BUY FIFTH ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          70         BUY SIXTH ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          80         BUY SEVENTH ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1          90         BUY EIGHTH ONE
MAGIC BEANS          1         100         BUY NINTH ONE

 _______
|ENEMIES|
|———————|


-*- ENEMIES -*-

- ANUBIS -
DESCRIPTION: A floating sarcophagus.
USUALLY FOUND: Spirit Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Avoids you completely, keeps doors locked
HOW TO KILL IT: Burn it using either a Fire Arrow, Din's Fire, or by activating
fire using a crystal switch.

- ARMOS -
DESCRIPTION: A large, round, stone statue; carries a small sword.
USUALLY FOUND: Dodongo's Cavern, Spirit Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Bounces around, explodes.
HOW TO KILL IT: If it's moving, use a bomb to damage it, then avoid it until it
explodes.

- BEAMOS -
DESCRIPTION: A rotating eye on top of a stone base.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples.
WAY IT ATTACKS: Shoots blue beams at you (use Mirror Shield to defend).
HOW TO KILL IT: Use a Bomb.

- BIG POE -
DESCRIPTION: A big ugly ghost.
USUALLY FOUND: Hyrule Field
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies through air but doesn't attack.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with an arrow from Epona.

- BLUE BUBBLE -
DESCRIPTION: A floating skull surrounded by blue flames.
USUALLY FOUND: Forest Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies around at ground level.
HOW TO KILL IT: Z-Target, shield up, then walk up to it. Hit it with your
shield to make the flames disappear, then attack the skull with your sword.

- DEKU BABA -
DESCRIPTION: A round, blue mouth on a long green stalk.
USUALLY FOUND: Kokiri Forest, Inside the Deku Tree
WAY IT ATTACKS: Either lunges at you (malignant) or rises up and makes chomping
noises (benign).
HOW TO KILL IT: Use your shield if it lunges, then chop it with your sword.

- FIRE KEESE -
DESCRIPTION: A bat on fire that flies around.
USUALLY FOUND: Everywhere, especially Fire Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies towards you, sets you on fire if it comes in contact.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with the Fairy Slingshot or the Bow.

- FLOORMASTER -
DESCRIPTION: A large brown hand.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies towards you.
HOW TO KILL IT: Attack it with your sword, then kill the three mini-hands it
leaves. If you don't kill them quickly, they'll grow into more Floormasters.

- FREEZARD -
DESCRIPTION: A pillar of ice.
USUALLY FOUND: Ice Cavern
WAY IT ATTACKS: Breaths ice (if it touches you, you'll be frozen temporarily).
HOW TO KILL IT: Hit it three times with your sword, or shoot it with a Fire
Arrow.

- GREEN BUBBLE -
DESCRIPTION: A floating skull surrounded by green flames.
USUALLY FOUND: Under the Well, Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies around in circles or through hallways.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it when the flames dissipate briefly.

- GUAY -
DESCRIPTION: A black crow-like bird with a large orange beak.
USUALLY FOUND: Everywhere.
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies towards you.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with the Fairy Slingshot or the Bow (it's no fun to
use the sword, Guays are always fun to kill from a distance, good target
practice :)

- ICE KEESE -
DESCRIPTION: A small bat surrounded by icy blue flames.
USUALLY FOUND: Ice Cavern
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies towards you, freezes you if it comes in contact.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with the Bow.

- IRON KNUCKLE -
DESCRIPTION: A very large knight in armor, armed with a giant axe.
USUALLY FOUND: Spirit Temple, Ganondorf's Castle
WAY IT ATTACKS: Slowly walks towards you, then does major damage with its
gigantic axe.
HOW TO KILL IT: Lure it close to you, quickly jump to the side, wait for it to
get its axe stuck, then jump attack it. Above all, dodge the axe at all cost.
Use the defensive maneuvers like side jumping and back flipping. This should be
the only enemy in the game.... heh heh >:-)

- KEESE -
DESCRIPTION: A small black bat.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies towards you.
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with the Slingshot or Bow.

- LEEVER -
DESCRIPTION: Cone-shaped green monster that hides in sand.
USUALLY FOUND: Desert Colossus
WAY IT ATTACKS: Pops out of the sand and spins around.
HOW TO KILL IT: Use your sword.

- LIKE LIKE -
DESCRIPTION: Large cylindrical blob.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Sucks you inside, then usually steals one of your items (your
Hylian Shield or tunics).
HOW TO KILL IT: Shoot it with arrows or kill it with your sword to retrieve
any stolen items (or to get lots of rupees). NOTE: Using the hookshot will
freeze it, but it will also pull you right up close to it. Kill it or get away
before it recovers.

- LIZALFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A large lizard that sounds like it's playing a saxophone.
LOCATION: Spirit Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Dodges attacks and slashes with its sword.
HOW TO KILL IT: Stab it immediately after it jumps.

- OCTOROK -
DESCRIPTION: Small purple octopus that floats in water.
USUALLY FOUND: Lake Hylia, Zora's River, Forest Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Shoots rocks at you.
HOW TO KILL IT: Use your shield to bounce the rocks back at it.

- POE -
DESCRIPTION: A ghost that carries a small lantern.
USUALLY FOUND: Graveyard
WAY IT ATTACKS: Disappears, then spins around and hits you with its lantern.
HOW TO KILL IT: Hit it when it reappears.

- PSYCHO POT -
DESCRIPTION: A clay pot that rises and attacks when you get too close.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies toward you and uses kamikaze tactics.
HOW TO KILL IT: It kills itself.... Just use your shield to prevent damage.

- RAZOR TRAP -
DESCRIPTION: A block with several metal spikes on it, moves back and forth or
around in circles.
USUALLY FOUND: Temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Moves along a set path, damaging you if you touch it.
HOW TO KILL IT: You don't.

- SHELL BLADE -
DESCRIPTION: Clam-like enemy.
USUALLY FOUND: Water Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Bounces through water and hits you.
HOW TO KILL IT: Use the Hookshot to kill it when it opens its shell.

- STALFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A large skeleton with a sword and shield.
LOCATION: Dungeons and temples
WAY IT ATTACKS: Slashes with sword and blocks attacks with shield.
HOW TO KILL IT: Block its attacks with your shield, then stab it quickly. You
can also try revolving around it with Z-Targeting and stabbing it in its side.

- TEKTITE -
DESCRIPTION: A spidery-like monster with four yellow legs and a blue or red
body (blue ones are stronger).
USUALLY FOUND: Death Mountain Trail, Lake Hylia, Water Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Jumps around.
HOW TO KILL IT: A weak enemy, use your sword to take it out.

- WHITE BUBBLE -
DESCRIPTION: A floating skull.
USUALLY FOUND: Spirit Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Flies around spastically.
HOW TO KILL IT: Slash it with your sword....

- WOLFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A black and gray wolf that howls a lot.
USUALLY FOUND: Lost Woods, Forest Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Runs around you and slashes you with its claws.
HOW TO KILL IT: Z-Target, then stab it right before it attacks (it'll block all
other attacks, but how could an animal have something that blocks sword attacks
on it's arms?).Also try using the quick spin attack.

-*- MINI-BOSSES -*-

- LIZALFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A large lizard that sounds like it's playing a saxophone.
LOCATION: Dodongo's Cavern
WAY IT ATTACKS: Dodges attacks and slashes with its sword
HOW TO KILL IT: Stun it with a Deku Nut, then jump-attack it.

- BIGOCTO -
DESCRIPTION: A really big octorok
LOCATION: Inside Jabu-Jabu's Belly
WAY IT ATTACKS: Runs around in circles....
HOW TO KILL IT: Follow it as fast as possible, stun it with the boomerang, then
jump attack it from behind.

- STALFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A large skeleton with a sword and shield
LOCATION: Forest Temple, Ganondorf's Castle
WAY IT ATTACKS: Slashes with sword and blocks attacks with shield.
HOW TO KILL IT: You must kill both of them quickly. If you take too long to
kill the second one, the first one comes back to life. To hit them, block their
attacks with your shield, then stab them quickly. You can also try revolving
around them with Z-Targeting and stabbing them in their side.

- FLARE DANCER -
DESCRIPTION: A small black creature that dances inside a body of flames
LOCATION: Fire Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Throws flames.
HOW TO KILL IT: Use the hookshot on the small black creature to pull it out,
then use the Megaton Hammer or your sword to attack it as it runs around.

- WHITE WOLFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A white wolf with a loud howl.
LOCATION: Ice Cavern
WAY IT ATTACKS: Runs around you and slashes you with its claws.
HOW TO KILL IT: Z-Target, then stab it right before it attacks (it'll block all
other attacks, but how could an animal have something that blocks sword attacks
on it's arms?).

- LINK'S REFLECTION -
DESCRIPTION: A shadow of Link
LOCATION: Water Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Dodges and blocks most sword attacks, stands on your sword if
you try to use a jump attack
HOW TO KILL IT: Use either the Biggoron Sword or Din's Fire. The Megaton Hammer
also works.

- DEAD HAND -
DESCRIPTION: An ugly white monster with four to six hands that stick out of the
ground and grab you.
LOCATION: Under the Well, Shadow Temple
WAY IT ATTACKS: Grabs your head and prevents you from moving
HOW TO KILL IT: Let one of the hands grab you to begin the battle. The actual
monster himself will come out of the dirt and walk towards you slowly. Once you
break free of the hand, do quick spin attacks (if you know how) or just avoid
the hands and attack the head. Continue this strategy (don't follow the head
once he turns around and burrows back underground) until he, uh, dies?...

- IRON KNUCKLE -
DESCRIPTION: A large, armored warrior
LOCATION: Spirit Temple, Ganondorf's Castle
WAY IT ATTACKS: With a huge whoppin' axe that does a load of damage.
HOW TO KILL IT: It's slow, so use quick dodging moves like the side jump and
back flip to dodge it's attacks, then attack it from behind or when it's axe
is pounded into the floor.

- DINOLFOS -
DESCRIPTION: A medium-sized fire-breathing dinosaur on two legs.
USUALLY FOUND: Gerudo Training Ground, Ganondorf's Castle
WAY IT ATTACKS: Breaths fire and attacks with a sword.
HOW TO KILL IT: Z-Target it, shield, dodge the flames, then jump attack.

-*- BOSSES -*-

- GIANT PARASITIC ARACHNID GHOMA -

Ghoma is quite easy, despite her nasty appearance (you'll notice this in other
bosses, too). To make her even notice you, press Up C and look into her eye.
Once she notices you, the battle will begin. Shoot her eye with a deku seed
only when it turns red. She'll be paralyzed for a few seconds, so Z-Target her
now green eye and do a couple jump-attacks by pressing A with your sword out.
You should be able to get two or three jump attacks in before she recovers.
She'll flee to the ceiling to lay some eggs. Before doing so, her eye turns red
again. I seem to remember that you can shoot her now, but don't quote me on
that. Once she lays the eggs, chop them up before they hatch to save some
trouble, then wait until she returns. Repeat the same strategy again until she
dies.

- INFERNAL DINOSAUR KING DODONGO -

This guy looks pretty scary, but he's kinda wimpy. The hylian shield is a must
whenever he rolls around. Whenever he opens his mouth, chuck a bomb in, then
wait until he collapses. Jump attack and slash him until he recovers, then
raise your shield when he rolls over you. Repeat this strategy until he rolls
himself into the lava. Don't worry, his body cools it down enough for you to
walk on it. Take the heart container, then enter the light.

- BIO-ELECTRIC ANENOME BARINADE -

One of the game's uglier monsters, Barinade is made up of a central nucleus,
some parasitic tentacles attached to the ceiling (which can be broken with the
boomerang), a rotating array of bari, and some more tentacles which shoot bolts
of electricity at you. Again, Z-Target and rotate around Barinade to dodge the
electricity, then boomerang the brain and jump attack it. If it sinks into the
floor, first kill off the bari with your boomerang (after stunning the nucleus)
and then try again. Continue to stun the brain and jump attack it until it
dies.

- EVIL SPIRIT FROM BEYOND: PHANTOM GANON -

This might freak you out at first. It's only the fourth dungeon and you already
have to face Ganon! Actually, this is merely a phantom copy of the real Ganon,
and this thing is much weaker than the real thing. He'll begin by riding his
horse into one of the paintings. Stand in the middle of the room and... what?
He's not there? Try leaving first, heh heh... ka-CHINK! Now he'll be there....
As I was saying, stand in the middle of the room (on the Triforce for good
luck) and take out the bow. Rotate around until you see a horse coming out of
one of the paintings. Don't shoot yet: if the horse turns away, it's a decoy,
and the real thing is about to come out. Quickly find the ganon that glows
brightly and is surrounded by a dark purple cloud. Shoot him right away to make
him return to the painting. Repeat this until he gives up on the horse and
faces you himself. Z-Target him and wait until he shoots a ball of energy at
him. Use the Master Sword to reflect his own attack back at him. REMEMBER THIS
STRATEGY! Keep reflecting it back and forth until he fails to hit it and it
hits him instead. Run over and jump attack him until he recovers, then repeat
until he is banished forever.

- SUBTERRANEAN LAVA DRAGON VOLVAGIA -

When you first enter, hop across to the central platform, the one with an array
of nine holes. The platform behind you will crumble, trapping you inside. Vol-
vagia, a long, snake-like dragon will emerge. As long as he's flying around in
the air, you can't hit him. Wait until he burrows into one of the lava holes,
then wait for him to emerge. If he stays there, run over to him and whack him
with the Megaton Hammer. When he collapses, jump attack him with the hammer.
Wait for him to fly around again and repeat until he dies. He'll also fly up
and hit the ceiling, causing boulders to fall on top of you. He may also breath
fire at you as he flies around the room. Also, notice the eruptions of fire
that come out of the holes before he emerges. He often does this several times
before emerging in an effort to trick you into running to a different hole. I
thought he popped out of the holes to attack you, not to give you a fighting
chance. Anyway, once goronian history repeats itself, take the Heart Container.

- GIANT AQUATIC AMOEBA MORPHA -

At first, you may think you're about to fight a fish. Then the fish rises up
above the water level and the water follows it. At this point, you may realize
that this isn't exactly a fish. It's Morpha, a little eye in an amorphous blob
of water. To fight it, you'll need to use the Longshot to pull the nucleus out
of the water so you can slash it with your sword. It can be pretty hard to hit.
When the nucleus starts swirling around, stay on the move to avoid its attack.
Once the watery tentacle has emerged, latch onto the nucleus with Z-Targeting
and slash away. Generally, it's a good idea to avoid letting Morpha grab you
with its watery tentacle, because it tends to crush you and throw you into the
many spikes that adorn the walls. Also, if you happen to fall into the pool,
climb out onto one of the four islands, then hop back to the main floor. Once
Morpha dries up, take the Heart Container and enter the Chamber of the Sages.

- PHANTOM SHADOW BEAST BONGO BONGO -

Bongo Bongo is probably one of the most innovative Zelda bosses. His main body
is invisible and can only be seen with the Lens of Truth. He uses his hands to
drum the giant drum that you're standing on and to slap you around. His weak
point, not surprisingly, is his eye. Most of the time, it's shut tight. To open
it, shoot both hands with an arrow, then fire a single arrow into the eye. This
brings the body down so that you can reach it. Run over and jump attack it un-
til it recovers. Continue this strategy, gathering extra arrows and magic bot-
tles, until Bongo Bongo melts into a puddle of evilness.

- SORCERESS SISTERS TWINROVA -

This is one of the more innovative battles of the whole game. The first stage
is rather difficult, since some of it is out of your control. The two witches
fly around the room, and eventually one of them stops and sends a large blast
of either ice or fire at you, depending on the witch. Here's where the luck
comes in: you have to reflect the blast off of your shield at the other witch,
since fire beats ice and ice beats fire. The problem is that the other witch
isn't always stupid enough to fly right into the blast. Fortunately, though,
she sometimes is, and will often fly next to her sister, which works perfectly:
Z-Target her and raise your shield. You may have to move around a bit, since
the blast has to hit her full-on, and not just her broomstick or something.
Make SURE you never get hit in the side or the back with one of the blasts. The
ice blast can freeze you in place for a good five seconds until it thaws. Once
you hit them enough, they'll combine to form Twinrova, a larger witch with both
elements combined. This time, either element will stun her, but it's a bit
harder to reflect the elements. Each time you get hit in the shield with an
element, your shield will absorb a bit of that element and store it. You have
to get hit with three consecutive blasts of the same element before the shield
overloads and releases a blast of the element back at Twinrova. Once it hits
her, she'll collapse onto one of the four pillars. Jump over and jump attack
her and slash her until she gets up. It gets a bit harder after the first cou-
ple of hits, since she eventually starts to alternate the elements. You'll have
to dodge the other element blasts in order to fully charge up your shield,
otherwise it'll just absorb fire, ice, fire, ice, fire, etc. and never reflect
them back. Also, be careful when you dodge the element blasts, since they tend
to spread out when they hit the floor. Even if you dodge the full blast, you
can still feel the effects if you're too close to the impact zone. Once the
two sisters die and, er, go to heaven for some reason, take the Heart Container
and step into the blue light.

- GANONDORF DRAGMIRE -

Immediately retreat to one of the four corners to avoid getting pounded by
Ganondorf's first attack. The initial impact will dislodge the floor around the
central platform, leaving the blocks around the edge of the room still intact.
Even so, the rest of the blocks will eventually fall, so stay in the corners.
Once you're out from under his feet, Ganondorf will suck up all the light in
the room and throw it at you. This part of the battle is just like Phantom
Ganon in the Forest Temple: use the Master Sword as a baseball bat and deflect
Ganondorf's light attacks back at him. He'll use his cape to bounce them back,
so keep hitting them back and forth until he lets his guard down. Immediately
shoot him with a Light Arrow, then Z-Target him and wait until he collapses.
Immediately shoot the Longshot into him to pull yourself to him, then hack away
with your sword until he recovers. Don't bother trying to use a jump attack, it
takes too much time. If you're lucky, though, you may be able to launch the
Longshot at him right before he lands so that it hits him higher and pulls you
over to him higher up in the air, allowing you to do a jump attack by immed-
iately drawing your sword before you land. Anyway, once he recovers, shoot the
Longshot into the corner before he totally recovers and continues his attacks.
Repeat this process until he gives up, which doesn't happen after a lot of
sword slashing and a different attack that your sword doesn't deflect as
easily. When he starts sucking in energy a lot slower, make sure you start
running to dodge his next attack, it's tough to deflect. It also has a ten-
dancy to dislodge more of the floor. If you're really brave, try doing a spin
attack to deflect it. You'll need to begin charging up at the same time as him,
then release it right after his first yell of "Awwwwwwww..." and right as soon
as he yells "HYAAAAAAAAAH!" If it's timed right, you'll deflect all his attacks
and some of them will bounce back at him. They'll stun him just like the other
simple attacks, so use the same Light Arrow / Longshot / Sword strategy to
attack. Keep it up until he gives up.

- GANON -

Ganondorf has a little surprise left for you: once the castle has been com-
pletely leveled, Link will automatically investigate a strange noise in the
ruins. Then, from the middle of the rubble, Ganondorf emerges and transforms
into Ganon, a gigantic pig of evil with two very large blades. His first attack
will knock the Master Sword out of your hands. There's nothing you can do to
stop it. You'll want to stay a little ways away from Ganon, since he's rather
dangerous. The only way to get close to him is to shoot his face with a Light
Arrow to blind him. His weak spot is his tail on his back, so run around him
and smash it with the Megaton Hammer or hit it with the Biggoron Sword. Repeat
this strategy until Princess Zelda hollers, informing you that the ring of fire
has dissipated long enough to grab the Master Sword. Take it and continue your
attacks. Once Zelda weakens Ganon with her beam of light, inflict the final
blow to defeat Ganon.

 __________
|CHARACTERS|
|——————————|

-*- MAIN CHARACTERS -*-

- LINK -

The most important character in the game (obviously) since YOU are Link (well,
actually, you're controlling Link, I don't know who you are). Link is a
courageous young boy from Kokiri Forest in the land of Hyrule. Originally, he
didn't have a guardian fairy like the other Kokiri Children. The Great Deku
Tree sent him Navi, a guardian fairy who remained with him until the end of his
quest. Together, they save Hyrule from the evil Ganondorf. His courage is un-
paralleled.

- PRINCESS ZELDA -

The Princess of Hyrule, and secretly a tomboy. She knows what Ganondorf is
planning and trusts Link, whom she saw in a dream, to save Hyrule. She is ex-
tremely wise.

- GANONDORF -

The current King of the Gerudo Thieves, and the only living male Gerudo. Ganon-
dorf has secret plans to take over Hyrule. He has sworn allegiance to the King
of Hyrule, though his motives are questionable and his position gives him the
ability to betray the King and take over Hyrule. His thirst for power should
not be underestimated.

- NAVI -

Navi the Fairy helps Link in many ways, such as reminding him what he needs to
be doing if he ever goofs off or forgets where to go. She also locks onto ene-
mies with Z-Targeting and offers (semi-) helpful advice on how to beat them.
She has been entrusted by the Deku Tree to protect Link during his quest.

- EPONA -

A rough and wild horse living at Lon Lon Ranch, and a good friend of Malon.
Epona dislikes Link at first, but once he learns how to play Epona's Song on
his Ocarina, she becomes good friends with Link and always comes when called.
Later on, Link rescues her from the evil Ingo after Talon is kicked off the
ranch.

- KAEPORA GAEBORA -

A large owl who appears often at the start of your quest and then reappears
near the end. He offers useful advice and information, as well as free rides
back to either Hyrule Castle Town from Lake Hylia, or to Kakariko Village from
the summit of Death Mountain.

- TALON & MALON -

This father and daughter pair live on Lon Lon Ranch where they (kinda) work
together to run the farm. Talon is a bit fat and lazy and tends to fall asleep
often. Malon is a cute little girl who instantly becomes friends with Link when
she meets him in Hyrule Castle Town.

- SHEIK -

Kind of a replacement for Kaepora Gaebora once you grow older. Sheik is a mys-
terious youth who appears every so often to teach you new songs and such. He
claims to be descended from the Sheikah people. He mysteriously vanishes when-
ever Link gets too close....

- SARIA -

Saria is Link's lifelong friend from Kokiri Forest. She loves to sit on the
stump in the Sacred Forest Meadow and play her song on her ocarina all day. She
can speak telepathically to Link whenever he plays Saria's Song.

- DARUNIA -

The brave and strong leader of the Gorons, Darunia is both powerful and kind.
The gorons all love him, and he loves to dance. He is very protective of his
people.

- RUTO -

The Princess of the Zoras. She is definitely a major tomboy. Her job is to feed
Jabu-Jabu all the time, and she often goes inside Jabu-Jabu. She loses her mo-
ther's precious jewel when Jabu-Jabu swallows it, and she goes inside to find
it. She discovers that Jabu-Jabu has been infested by parasites and monsters
and sends a letter in a bottle for help. Later on she, uh, well... you'll find
out.

- IMPA -

Impa is Zelda's guardian and nanny. She protects Zelda day and night. She is
descended from the Sheikah people, an ancient race who lived in Hyrule long
ago. She used to live in a house in what is now Kakariko Village, which she
founded.

- NABOORU -

Nabooru is the only Gerudo Thief who refuses to swear allegiance to Ganondorf.
She knows what he's up to and is determined to stop him, but she can't do any-
thing without the Silver Gauntlets. She's waiting at the Spirit Temple for some
help.

- RAURU -

The sage of light, Rauru is the first to greet Link after his transformation.
He gives Link his first medallion, the Light Medallion.

-*- MINOR CHARACTERS -*-

These are in no super-special particular order, but they're kinda in order of
appearance. Any unnamed characters are either listed under their description or
under the name of their double in Majora's Mask.

- MIDO -

The self-proclaimed leader of the Kokiri Children. He loves to bully the other
children, especially "Mr. No-Fairy" Link. He also likes Saria.

- FADO -

A girl who stands on top of a ledge in the middle of Kokiri Forest.

- THE TWINS -

I guess you could call these quintuplets or something, 'cause there are more
than two Kokiri girls that look alike.

- THE KNOW-IT-ALL BROTHERS -

There are three brothers that stay inside their house, and several others who
hang around the forest who will teach you certain things about how to play the
game. If you're a beginner, listen to them.

- THE GREAT DEKU TREE -

The Great Deku Tree protects Kokiri Forest, though how he does that when he's
rooted into the ground is beyond my understanding. He was cursed by Ganondorf,
and dies shortly after the beginning of the game. Hopefully you're far enough
into the game that you already knew that. If you aren't, and you're already
looking here for help, shame on you.

- SKULL KIDS -

These lost boys like to play their flutes in the Lost Woods, but they don't
really like people, especially adults. If you kill the lone one as an adult,
he'll give you a whopping 200 rupees! If only it were that easy in the next
game....

- INGO -

This disgruntled farm worker ends up taking over the ranch later in the game.
Take Epona and wake up Talon to restore the ranch to it's rightful ownership.

- BORED GUARD / ONE-EYED PARAPSYCHOLOGIST -

This lonely, bored guard is standing in the middle of a plethora of clay pots
in the Hyrule Castle Town Guard Post. He likes smashing pots and studying
ghosts. Later, when he dies, his spirit remains in the form of a mysterious,
one-eyed poe salesman in the same guard post.

- LAUGHING TWINS -

These two crazy guys give you a hint on how to get inside Hyrule Castle.

- SAKON'S UNNAMED DOUBLE -

A strange man in blue pants who prances around the town.

- PROFESSOR SHIKASHI'S UNNAMED DOUBLE -

An old man in blue who lives in the town.
- MAMAMU YAN'S UNNAMED DOUBLE -

A large woman who is extremely proud of her little Richard (a dog, not the
singer).

- HONEY & DARLING'S UNNAMED DOUBLES -

A pair of lovers who dance around in town.

- HAPPY MASK SALESMAN -

A grinning and squinting man who loans you masks. You can then go out and try
to sell these masks. He has a bit of an unstable mind, and his mood can change
extremely quickly, as seen in the sequel....

- ANJU'S UNNAMED DOUBLE -

The Cucco Keeper in Kakariko Village who happens to be allergic to cuccos. She
later breeds a Pocket Cucco that she isn't allergic to.

- THE POTION SHOP WITCH -

An old hag who owns the Potion Shop in Kakariko. She's apparently the wife of
the Lead Carpenter, and the mother of the guy who sits under the tree at night
who claims that "everyone's disgusting."

- GURU-GURU'S UNNAMED DOUBLE, AKA BOB THE CRAZY WINDMILL GUY -

This odd man loves going around.... He plays the music inside the Windmill all
the time. Later, he's a little angry at a certain someone with an Ocarina....

- LEAD CARPENTER -

This guy is a bit unsatisfied with the way his workers are working, and I don't
blame him. He's apparently the husband of the witch who runs the potion shop,
and the father of the poor guy who sits under the tree at night and claims that
"everyone's disgusting."

- THE CARPENTERS -

These lazy guys originally were hired to improve Kakariko Village, but later,
they're hired to repair the bridge to Gerudo Valley. But before they can begin
the job, they're captured by the Gerudo Thieves.

- GROG'S UNNAMED DOUBLE / THE LEAD CARPENTER'S SON -

This strange guy sits under the tree in Kakariko and claims that "Everyone's
disgusting." Later, he's in the Lost Woods.

- SKULLTULA FATHER -

This sad man has been transformed into a hideous half-man half-spider who hangs
from the ceiling of his house. He begs you to kill the Golden Skulltulas and
break the curse on his five children.

- SKULLTULA CHILDREN -

These five children have suffered the same fate as their father. It takes ten
skulltulas each to restore them to their hylian bodies.

- MAN ON ROOF WHO NEEDS SERIOUS FASHION HELP -

This loner sits on the roof in Kakariko and gives you a Piece of Heart if you
can reach him. He needs some serious fashion help.

- JIM'S UNNAMED DOUBLE / SMALL BOY IN GRAVEYARD -

A small boy who walks around the graveyard with a stick, imitating Dampé. He
wants to be very frightening.

- DAMPÉ -

The gravedigger in the Kakariko Graveyard. He comes out in the evening to dig
graves and to give a little contest. He stays in his hut the rest of the time.
Later, he dies and has another contest inside his tomb: a race.

- KAKARIKO GUARD -

This guy guards the path that leads to the Death Mountain Trail. He won't let
anyone through unless they have the King's permission. He wants a Keaton Mask
to give to his son.

- MEDIGORON -

This large goron is working on a "knife" which will be ready in a few years.
Don't buy it, it'll break.

- BIGGORON -

This HUGE goron makes stronger "knives" that don't break. Unfortunately, he
can't make them right now because King Zora hasn't sent him his eyedrop pre-
scription. Poor guy.... What? No, no, I meant Link. The poor guy has to run all
over the place to get those stupid eyedrops.

- LINK-GORO -

To avoid confusion, I'm calling this guy by his MM name. This is Darunia's son
who is named after you. He's the only one left behind after the other Gorons
are taken to the Fire Temple to be fed to Volvagia.

- BONOORU -

As Young Link, teach this scarecrow an eight-note song of your choice. He'll
remember it forever and will teach it to his friend....

- PIERRE -

The wandering friend of Bonooru. This guy hides underground where you can't see
him. Navi will often fly over to an area and glow green. This probably means
you should try playing the Scarecrow's Song. Also, Pierre won't appear until
you talk to Bonooru after becoming an adult. Use your Hookshot on Pierre to
pull yourself over to him.

- LAKE HYLIA PROFESSOR -

This odd man performs experiments with water from Lake Hylia. He has all sorts
of strange creatures and items in his laboratory. He also loves to eat Eyeball
Frogs.

- FISHERMAN -

The owner and operator of the Fishing Pond. Notice the hat when he's seven
years older.... Sorry, I promised him I wouldn't tell. Go read the rules for
the fishing pond, specifically the one about not casting your line at people.

- BEAN SALESMAN -

This pale guy sits on the bank of Zora's River trying to sell Magic Beans. He
also likes to eat them.

- THE FABULOUS FIVE FROGGISH TENORS -

A group of five frogs who live in Zora's River. They hop out upon seeing your
ocarina and sing along to its five notes.

- KING ZORA VI -

The sixth king of the Zoras. He sits on his throne at the top of Zora's Domain.
It takes him about thirty seconds to scoot over a couple feet. He's also the
father of Princess Ruto (duh).

- DEKU SPROUT -

You'll find out more about this little guy later....

- THE RUNNING MAN -

This guy runs around Hyrule Field after you've defeated Barinade. He runs quite
fast, but occasionally must stop and rest, which is the only time you can talk
to him. After selling him the Bunny Hood, he'll take off at super-speed.

- CARPET SALESMAN -

This man obviously hasn't heard the saying "Location, location, location." He
picked probably the worst spot to try and sell bombchu: in the middle of a
stormy desert on a floating carpet that can only be reached by using a pair of
Hover Boots. Sheesh, I doubt he gets much business....


-*- CHARACTER COMPARISON -*-

You should know by now that there is a sequel to Ocarina of Time by the name of
"Majora's Mask." I'm quite an expert on it as well, since I already wrote a
FAQ / Walkthrough for it first. You should also know that approximately half of
the characters from Ocarina of Time reappear in Majora's Mask, but since it...
well, doesn't take place in Hyrule (I don't want to reveal too much), the
characters aren't the same, they just look identical. I recommend you buy MM
once you complete Ocarina of Time. When you buy it, here's a list I typed up
that compares all the similar characters (or you could just head on over to my
Majora's Mask FAQ / Walkthrough and see the list there, hint-hint):

BEAN SALESMAN: Bean salesman
BOB THE CRAZY WINDMILL GUY: Guru-Guru
BOMBCHU BOWLING GIRL: Treasure Chest Game Girl
BOMBCHU SALESMAN: Bomb Shop Salesman
CARPENTERS: Carpenters
COJIRO GUY / CARPENTER'S SON: Grog
CUCCO KEEPER IN KAKARIKO: Anju
DAMPÉ: Dampé
DANCING COUPLE: Honey and Darling
FISHING POND OWNER (young Link): Trading Post Owner
FISHING POND OWNER (adult Link*): Curiosity Shop Owner
FLAT COMPOSER: Flat composer
HAPPY MASK SALESMAN: Happy Mask Salesman
INGO (young Link): Gorman Brothers
INGO (adult Link): Gorman
KOTAKE: Kotake
KOUME: Koume
LAKE HYLIA SCIENTIST: Great Bay Scientist
LAUGHING PAIR: Funny twins in Gorman Troupe
LITTLE BOY IN GRAVEYARD W/ SPOOKY MASK: Jim / Bombers Gang Members
MAGIC CARPET SALESMAN: Sword Master
MALON (young Link): Romani
MALON (adult Link): Cremia
MAN ON ROOF IN KAKARIKO WHO NEEDS SERIOUS FASHION HELP: Part-time worker at
 Trading Post / Man climbing tree for rupees
MAN RUNNING AROUND TOWN: Sakon
NAVI: Tatl
OLD LADY: Old Lady from Bomb Shop
OLD MAN IN BLUE: Professor Shikashi
OWNER OF LITTLE RICHARD: Mamayu Yan
PARAPSYCHOLOGICAL DEAD HYLIAN SOLDIER (adult Link): One-Eyed Man Near Ikana
"Please... with C" GUY: Banker
RUNNING MAN: Postman
RUTO (adult Link): Lulu
SHARP COMPOSER: Sharp composer
SKULL KID: Skull Kid
SKULLTULA HOUSE FATHER: Cursed Man in Swamp Skulltula House
SKULLTULA KIDS: Dancing guys seen from the Observatory Telescope
SKULLTULA KID: Oceanside Spider House Buyer
SPECIAL POTION SHOP LADY: Anju's Grandmother
TALON: Mr. Barten
TREASURE CHEST GAME OPERATOR: Fisherman

*What's the fisherman's difference between ages? Notice he has hair as young
Link. As adult Link, he has a hat... Sorry, I can't tell, I promised him :) If
you really want to know, read the fishing rules. Something about not casting
your line at people?...

 _____________
|SIDE MISSIONS|
|—————————————|

-*- GOLDEN SKULLTULAS -*-

These pesky little spiders are everywhere! There are a complete total of 100 in
the entire game. You don't have to get any of them, but it does give the game a
bit of replay value after you do everything else. The Skulltulas have cast a
curse on the family members of a house in Kakariko. The family was quite rich,
but their wealth cost them their human bodies. They've all been turned into
grotesque half-spider, half-human creatures. As the Golden Skulltulas are
killed and as you collect their golden tokens, the family slowly turns back to
normal. Each of the children take ten Golden Skulltula Tokens each, and the
father takes a whopping fifty. They all give you rewards for your troubles, so
it is worth it.

The Skulltulas themselves tend to prefer nighttime, since they don't exactly
enjoy hot sunlight. They also do just fine inside buildings, caves, dungeons,
and other dark places. If you're searching an area outside, do it at night for
best results. Also, if there's a suspicious looking tree (or maybe just a
normal looking tree), try rolling into it. You should at least get some rupees
or hearts, but often times a skulltula will fall out. Other skulltulas can be
reached by using the Boomerang or Hookshot, and these tools can also be used
to retrieve distant tokens. Also, every single bean hole has a Skulltula in
it, but to get it out, you have to open a bottle of bugs on it. Since each bug
turns into three bugs, you can catch one and use it, then catch one and let
the other two get the Skulltula out of the hole. Here's a little list of the
rewards followed by a not-so-little list of where all 100 skulltulas are in the
game (actually, it just has the non-dungeon ones, since those in the dungeons
are included in the Walkthrough, but I'll type them up later).

10 Skulltulas: Adult Wallet (up to 200 rupees)
20 Skulltulas: Stone of Agony
30 Skulltulas: Giant Wallet (up to 500 rupees)
40 Skulltulas: Bombchu
50 Skulltulas: Piece of Heart
100 Skulltulas: Gold Rupee

FYI, the Stone of Agony is only useful if you have a Rumble Pak attached. It'll
make the Rumble Pak shake whenever you're near a secret, like an underground
grotto. It's pretty useful. Anyway...

KOKIRI FOREST
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  Yes     Behind the Know-It-All Brothers house
Young  No      Plant bugs in the bean hole
Adult  Yes     Above the House of Twins

LOST WOODS
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole on the ledge near the Bridge
Young  No      Bean hole to the left of the Zora's Domain shortcut
Adult  Yes     Using the bean plant to the left of the Zora's River shortcut

SACRED FOREST MEADOW
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Adult  Yes     On the hill to the right

HYRULE FIELD
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Both   Yes     Near the gate to Hyrule Castle Town
Both   Yes     In a circle of stones near Gerudo Valley

HYRULE CASTLE TOWN
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Break open the box in the back of the Guard Post

HYRULE CASTLE / GANONDORF'S CASTLE
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Ram the tree near the first gate
Young  No      Play the Song of Storms by the tree near the Castle
Adult  No      On the back of the arch to the right

LON LON RANCH
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Ram the tree near the cuccos
Young  Yes     Behind the small shed
Young  Yes     On the inside of the outer wall, to the right of the tower
Young  Yes     On Talon's second story window

KAKARIKO VILLAGE
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Ram the tree by the Lead Carpenter
Young  Yes     On the left side of the Skulltula House
Young  Yes     On the pile of bricks at the construction site
Young  Yes     At the top of the ladder on the lookout tower
Young  Yes     On the side of the little boy's house
Adult  Yes     On the cliff above Impa's house

GRAVEYARD
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole by Dampé's grave
Young  Yes     On the right wall

DEATH MOUNTAIN
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole by the entrance to Dodongo's Cavern
Both   No      Bomb the blocked alcove on the right side as you enter
Adult  Yes     Near the bomb flower used to open Dodongo's Cavern
Adult  Yes     Along the trail to the summit, on the right side

GORON CITY
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      In the cave full of boulders (use bombs)
Adult  Yes     Behind the Goron Ruby plinth on the island (use the Hookshot)

DEATH MOUNTAIN CRATER
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      In the crate just inside the entrance
Young  No      Bean hole by the Bolero of Fire warp pad

ZORA'S RIVER
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  Yes     On the ladder near the waterfall
Young  No      Ram the tree near the entrance to the river
Adult  Yes     On the cliff above the large plateau with the cucco
Adult  Yes     On the cliff by the bridge

ZORA'S DOMAIN
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Adult  Yes     To the left of the top of the frozen waterfall

ZORA'S FOUNTAIN
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Ram the tree near the Great Fairy Fountain
Young  Yes     On the cliff near the dead tree, south of Jabu-Jabu
Adult  Yes     Destroy the rock near the Great Fairy Fountain

LAKE HYLIA
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole near the Lakeside Laboratory
Young  Yes     On the Fire Arrow island
Young  Yes     On the back wall of the Lakeside Laboratory
Adult  No      Ram the crate at the bottom of the Lakeside Laboratory's pool
Adult  Yes     On top of the large tree on the island (use the Hookshot)

GERUDO VALLEY
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole by the cow down in the canyon
Young  Yes     By the little tiny waterfall near the entrance
Adult  Yes     Behind the Carpenter's Tent
Adult  Yes     At the top of the stone arch

GERUDO FORTRESS
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Adult  Yes     On the cliff behind the fortress
Adult  Yes     On the northernmost target at the archery range

HAUNTED WASTELAND
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Adult  No      Inside the stone shelter

DESERT COLOSSUS
AGE:   NIGHT:  LOCATION:
Young  No      Bean hole to the left of the Spirit Temple entrance
Adult  Yes     In the palm tree by the oasis
Adult  Yes     On the northern rock


-*- HAPPY MASKS -*-

This sequence can only be accomplished as Young Link. To get started, you must
first show Zelda's Letter to the Kakariko Guard to have him open the gate.
He'll tell you about the Happy Mask Shop and how his son has been begging him
for a Keaton Mask. From there, a sequence of three other mask sales eventually
leads to four other unlockable masks for a total of eight. There are more in
the sequel....

- KEATON MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A yellow fox-like creature that resembles a Pikachu
BUYER: Kakariko Guard
PRICE OF MASK: 10
PRICE PAID: 15

- SKULL MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A mask that looks like the front of a skull with two horns on top
BUYER: Lone Skull Kid
PRICE OF MASK:
PRICE PAID:

- SPOOKY MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A face like a ReDead, carved out of wood with three round holes
BUYER: Boy in Graveyard
PRICE OF MASK: 30
PRICE PAID: 30

- BUNNY HOOD -

DESCRIPTION: A pair of real bunny ears with eyes. Doesn't make you run faster.
BUYER: Running Man in Hyrule Field seen after beating Jabu-Jabu (he stops at
night)
PRICE OF MASK: 50
PRICE PAID: 500

- MASK OF TRUTH -

DESCRIPTION: A shiny mask with the same pattern as the Gossip Stones
USE: Allows you to listen to the secrets of Gossip Stones
HOW TO UNLOCK: Sell all of the first four masks

- GORON MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A large mask with the face of a Goron
USE: Makes the Gorons think you're one of them, and that you don't eat enough
HOW TO UNLOCK: Sell all of the first four masks

- ZORA MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A white mask in the shape of a Zora
USE: Doubtful comments from the Zoras
HOW TO UNLOCK: Sell all of the first four masks

- GERUDO MASK -

DESCRIPTION: A dark-skinned mask with the face of a Gerudo
USE: Makes people think you're a woman, makes Gerudo thieves a bit annoyed
HOW TO UNLOCK: Sell all of the first four masks

-*- BIGGORON SWORD -*-

To get the largest and most powerful sword in the game, you have to follow a
series of trades that starts with an egg and eventually ends with the large
blade made by Biggoron. Some of these items must reach their destination within
a certain time limit, but using warp songs will instantly ruin them. Using
warps, however, is just fine (such as the Goron City to Lost Woods warp).

POCKET EGG
RECEIVED FROM: CUCCO KEEPER
DELIVERED TO: CUCCO KEEPER
LOCATION: KAKARIKO VILLAGE
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: This small pocket-sized egg was bred by the Cucco Girl in Kaka-
riko. She doesn't get allergic reactions from it. The cucco that hatches from
it enjoys waking up lazy people, so take it in to the house where Talon is fast
asleep once it hatches and let it wake him up. Afterwards, take it back to the
Cucco Girl to receive Cojiro.

COJIRO
RECEIVED FROM: CUCCO KEEPER
DELIVERED TO: CUCCO KEEPER'S BROTHER
LOCATION: LOST WOODS
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: This special blue cucco can only be tamed by kind people. The Cuc-
co Keeper trusts you with it after seeing your skill with the Pocket Egg. You
must deliver it to her brother, the guy who used to sit under the tree at night
seven years ago and said that everyone is disgusting. He's lying by the Lone
Skull Kid's stump in the Lost Woods. You can take the shortcut from Goron City
if you want. Once you find him, he'll give you the Odd Mushroom.

ODD MUSHROOM
RECEIVED FROM: CUCCO KEEPER'S BROTHER
DELIVERED TO: POTION SHOP WOMAN
LOCATION: KAKARIKO
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: This mushroom, found only in the Lost Woods, may be able to save
the poor man. Take it back to Kakariko Village and give it to the Potion Shop
Woman (in the back door behind the fenced-off area). She'll use it to concoct
an Odd Potion that may save him.

ODD POTION
RECEIVED FROM: POTION SHOP WOMAN
DELIVERED TO: FADO
LOCATION: LOST WOODS
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: Return to where the man was laying to find Fado, a young Kokiri
girl. She claims that everyone who enters the Lost Woods eventually becomes
Stalfos. Everyone. Stalfos. She notices that the potion was made from a Lost
Woods mushroom, so she'll demand it back. In return, she'll give you the Poach-
er's Saw.

POACHER'S SAW
RECEIVED FROM: FADO
DELIVERED TO: HEAD CARPENTER
LOCATION: GERUDO VALLEY
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: This saw belongs to the Carpenter, so deliver it to him on the
other side of the Gerudo River. In return, he'll simply give you a broken Goron
Sword.

BROKEN GORON SWORD
RECEIVED FROM: HEAD CARPENTER
DELIVERED TO: BIGGORON
LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN TRAIL (SUMMIT)
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: Though it may not seem very useful now, this sword handle can be
restored into a fabulous sword. The only problem: Biggoron, the maker of the
sword, was injured in a recent eruption of Death Mountain and can't see very
well. He has a Prescription for Eye Drops from King Zora, but he can't deliver
it to King Zora because he can't fit in Zora's Domain....

PRESCRIPTION
RECEIVED FROM: BIGGORON
DELIVERED TO: KING ZORA VI
LOCATION: ZORA'S DOMAIN
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: Obviously, you will need to have gotten far enough in the game to
the point where King Zora is thawed. Show the prescription to King Zora to find
out that they don't have Biggoron's Eye Drops.... He does, however, have the
main ingredient for the Eye Drops: an Eyeball Frog. The frog is perishable, so
you'll need to deliver it quickly.

EYEBALL FROG
RECEIVED FROM: KING ZORA VI
DELIVERED TO: LAKESIDE LABORATORY PROFESSOR
LOCATION: LAKESIDE LABORATORY, LAKE HYLIA
TIME LIMIT:
DESCRIPTION: This frog is perishable, so hurry to Lake Hylia. Since the water
in Zora's Domain is still frozen, you'll have to leave through Zora's River and
use Epona to ride to the Lakeside Laboratory. Give the frog to the professor,
then make sure he doesn't eat it.... He'll reluctantly make the Eye Drops and
give them to you. You don't have much time to deliver them!

EYE DROPS
RECEIVED FROM: LAKESIDE LABORATORY PROFESSOR
DELIVERED TO: BIGGORON
LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN (SUMMIT)
TIME LIMIT: 10:00
DESCRIPTION: Immediately hop on Epona and ride her across Hyrule Field to Kaka-
riko. Hurry up the Death Mountain Trail and give the Eye Drops to Biggoron. He
will start working on the sword, which will be ready in three days. He'll give
you a Claim Check to prove the sword belongs to you.

CLAIM CHECK
RECEIVED FROM: BIGGORON
DELIVERED TO: BIGGORON
LOCATION: DEATH MOUNTAIN (SUMMIT)
TIME LIMIT: NONE
DESCRIPTION: Either wait for three days or play the Sun's Song six times if you
really can't wait that long. Once it's done, show him your Claim Check to get
the Biggoron Sword.

 ____________________________________
|GLITCHES, TIPS, CHEATS, TWEAKS, ETC.|
|————————————————————————————————————|

-*- BOMBABLE WALLS -*-

To find out if a wall can be bombed, hit it with your sword. If it can be
bombed, it will make a unique sound. Most walls make a THONG noise when you hit
them, but bombable walls will make a TWAING sound. The only real use for this
is to test a wall before you waste a Bomb on it.

-*- EASY RUPEES -*-

- SKULL KID -

As an adult, get the Biggoron Sword (not required, but useful) and attack the
Skull Kid dancing on the stump in the Lost Woods. If you manage to defeat him,
you'll receive 200 rupees. If only it were that easy in the sequel....

- HYRULE DRAWBRIDGE -

As Young Link, you can walk up the chains of the Hyrule Castle Town Drawbridge.
At the top are two or three red rupees, each worth 20 rupees each. Either hop
off of both sides at the top, or wait until nightfall and carefully walk along
the top of the drawbridge.

- HYRULE CASTLE TOWN GUARD POST -

This place is fun, even if it's a bit slow for getting rupees. This building,
just inside town, is full of pots. Have fun and go crazy. Many of the pots
contain rupees, but some of them don't.

-*- GLITCHES -*-

- EXTRA BOTTLES -

!!!WARNING! POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS GLITCH!!!

This is pretty useful if you need more than four bottles (why would you?).
Find a fairy or something that can be caught in a bottle. Equip a bottle to a
C-Button, then use the bottle next to the item that can be caught and pause in
mid-swing. Set any item you don't want to the same C-Button as the bottle
you're using to catch the thing, then unpause. The game will continue the swing
and will catch the item in the bottle, turning whatever you set to that C-
Button into an extra bottle. This is useful for things you can buy, like Deku
Nuts, Deku Sticks, etc. and for things that you don't need anymore (like the
Biggoron Sword Claim Check). !!!WARNING!!! THIS IS A GLITCH! IT IS NOT AN IN-
TENTIONAL METHOD OF CHEATING! AS SUCH, IT IS EASY TO LOSE CRUCIAL ITEMS!!! SOME
ITEMS CANNOT BE REPLACED!!! USE AT YOUR OWN RISK!!!

- UNLIMITED EASY SKULLTULAS -

This takes all the fun out of the skulltula quest. Find the underground grotto
under the tree near the Hyrule Castle Moat by playing the Song of Storms, then
hop down. Bomb the walls until you find the golden skulltula. Kill it, but
don't take the token yet. Instead, stand right in front of the circle of light
leading back up to the surface. Lock onto the token with Z-Targeting, then
throw the boomerang at it. Immediately do a back flip into the light. The boom-
erang should return right as you return to the surface. If done right, you keep
the token but the skulltula stays down there. Lather, rinse, and repeat.

- SOME KINDA MATRIX RIP-OFF PART I -

Speaking of Skulltulas.... This is the coolest with the skulltula near the Lost
Woods Bridge, the one in the soft soil. He should be right on the edge. Kill
him, then aim for the edge of the ledge and roll into him. The game will pause
you in mid-roll as it displays the message, and then you'll go rolling off the
edge. You can also do it with other skulltulas and other moves, like jump-
attacks and back flips and such.

- SOME KINDA MATRIX RIP-OFF PART II, BULLET-TIME EDITION -

If you let a Deku Scrub shoot a Deku Nut at you, you can stop it in mid-air by
taking out the Ocarina. After playing a warp song, the camera angles will
switch, showing the deku nut in mid-air from a different angle.

- THE BIG GLITCH -

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!WARNING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SPOILERS!FOR!THE!REST!OF!THE!GLITCHES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

It is possible to loose the Master Sword. You're probably saying "So? I already
knew that. You loose it while fighting Ganon." Yes. But can you leave the bat-
tle while the Master Sword is still missing?? Yes. But don't try running
through that fire, it's pretty hot. Don't you think you can just save the game,
quit, then start playing again to get out of the battle?...

This glitch unlocks even more glitches than just missing the Master Sword. Of
course, if you really need a sword, there's always the Biggoron Sword, or even
the Megaton Hammer. But if you equip the Biggoron Sword, you won't be able to
unequip it, so don't equip it unless you're done having fun with the glitches.

- REMOTE CONTROL EPONA -

This is quite funny. Do the Big Glitch above to loose the Master Sword, then
get on Epona. For some reason, the game will now allow you to use all your C-
Items while riding Epona, not just the Bow. This includes the Ocarina. Since
the game doesn't understand how to use the Ocarina on Epona, it'll make you
drop to the ground inside Epona. Stop using the Ocarina to have your own remote
controlled horse. As you move around, you can make Epona run wherever you want.
The game thinks you're still on Epona, so the control stick still controls her.
It also controls you, too.

- SOME KINDA MATRIX RIP-OFF PART III, "HE'S NOT GONNA MAKE IT" EDITION -

Do the Big Glitch above to loose the Master Sword, then get on Epona. Ride her
to Lake Hylia. Since you can now use C-Items while riding Epona, shoot the
Hookshot at the tree on the island. The hookshot will freeze in place since you
can't be pulled off of Epona. Climb down off of her and you'll suddenly be
picked up off the ground. You can now float around the entire area at the level
at which the hookshot hit the tree. The graphics for the hookshot will stretch
out as you move farther away. The only way to stop this is to move yourself
into the river, forcing the game to put you into the water and cancel the
Hookshot. This can also be done at the Gerudo Fortress, but you can't cancel it
and you can't go many places. BTW, you can also cancel this by flying yourself
into a Guay, I think....